--Edgar Allan Poe--
A strong argument for the religion of Christ is this - that offences against Charity are about the only ones which men on their death-beds can be made - not to understand - but to feel - as crime. 
 All religion, my friend, is simply evolved out of fraud, fear, greed, imagination, and poetry. 
 All that we see or seem is but a dream within a dream. 
 Beauty of whatever kind, in its supreme development, invariably excites the sensitive soul to tears. 
 Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there, wondering, fearing, doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before. 
 Experience has shown, and a true philosophy will always show, that a vast, perhaps the larger portion of the truth arises from the seemingly irrelevant. 
 I am above the weakness of seeking to establish a sequence of cause and effect, between the disaster and the atrocity. 
 I became insane, with long intervals of horrible sanity. 
 I have great faith in fools; self-confidence my friends call it. 
 I have no faith in human perfectability. I think that human exertion will have no appreciable effect upon humanity. Man is now only more active - not more happy - nor more wise, than he was 6000 years ago. 
 I have, indeed, no abhorrence of danger, except in its absolute effect - in terror. 
 I wish I could write as mysterious as a cat. 
 I would define, in brief, the poetry of words as the rhythmical creation of Beauty. 
 If you wish to forget anything on the spot, make a note that this thing is to be remembered. 
 In criticism I will be bold, and as sternly, absolutely just with friend and foe. From this purpose nothing shall turn me. 
 In one case out of a hundred a point is excessively discussed because it is obscure; in the ninety-nine remaining it is obscure because it is excessively discussed. 
 It is by no means an irrational fancy that, in a future existence, we shall look upon what we think our present existence, as a dream. 
 It is the nature of truth in general, as of some ores in particular, to be richest when most superficial. 
 It will be found, in fact, that the ingenious are always fanciful, and the truly imaginative never otherwise than analytic. 
 Man's real life is happy, chiefly because he is ever expecting that it soon will be so. 
 Of puns it has been said that those who most dislike them are those who are least able to utter them. 
 Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered weak and weary. 
 Poetry is the rhythmical creation of beauty in words. 
 Science has not yet taught us if madness is or is not the sublimity of the intelligence. 
 Stupidity is a talent for misconception. 
 That man is not truly brave who is afraid either to seem or to be, when it suits him, a coward. 
 That pleasure which is at once the most pure, the most elevating and the most intense, is derived, I maintain, from the contemplation of the beautiful. 
 The boundaries which divide Life from Death are at best shadowy and vague. Who shall say where the one ends, and where the other begins? 
 The death of a beautiful woman, is unquestionably the most poetical topic in the world. 
 The generous Critic fann'd the Poet's fire, And taught the world with reason to admire. 
 The ninety and nine are with dreams, content but the hope of the world made new, is the hundredth man who is grimly bent on making those dreams come true. 
 The nose of a mob is its imagination. By this, at any time, it can be quietly led. 
 The rudiment of verse may, possibly, be found in the spondee. 
 The true genius shudders at incompleteness - and usually prefers silence to saying something which is not everything it should be. 
 There are few cases in which mere popularity should be considered a proper test of merit; but the case of song-writing is, I think, one of the few. 
 There is an eloquence in true enthusiasm. 
 There is something in the unselfish and self-sacrificing love of a brute, which goes directly to the heart of him who has had frequent occasion to test the paltry friendship and gossamer fidelity of mere Man. 
 They who dream by day are cognizant of many things which escape those who dream only by night. 
 Those who dream by day are cognizant of many things that escape those who dream only at night. 
 To vilify a great man is the readiest way in which a little man can himself attain greatness. 
 We loved with a love that was more than love. 
 Were I called on to define, very briefly, the term Art, I should call it 'the reproduction of what the Senses perceive in Nature through the veil of the soul.' The mere imitation, however accurate, of what is in Nature, entitles no man to the sacred name of 'Artist.' 
 With me poetry has not been a purpose, but a passion.  
Words have no power to impress the mind without the exquisite horror of their reality. 
 
===
--Fyodor Dostoyevsky--
A real gentleman, even if he loses everything he owns, must show no emotion. Money must be so far beneath a gentleman that it is hardly worth troubling about. 
 Beauty is mysterious as well as terrible. God and devil are fighting there, and the battlefield is the heart of man. 
 Deprived of meaningful work, men and women lose their reason for existence; they go stark, raving mad. 
 Happiness does not lie in happiness, but in the achievement of it. 
 If there is no God, everything is permitted. 
 If you were to destroy the belief in immortality in mankind, not only love but every living force on which the continuation of all life in the world depended, would dry up at once. 
 It is not possible to eat me without insisting that I sing praises of my devourer? 
 It seems, in fact, as though the second half of a man's life is made up of nothing, but the habits he has accumulated during the first half. 
 Man is fond of counting his troubles, but he does not count his joys. If he counted them up as he ought to, he would see that every lot has enough happiness provided for it. 
 Man only likes to count his troubles, but he does not count his joys. 
 Man, so long as he remains free, has no more constant and agonizing anxiety than find as quickly as possible someone to worship. 
 Men do not accept their prophets and slay them, but they love their martyrs and worship those whom they have tortured to death. 
 Much unhappiness has come into the world because of bewilderment and things left unsaid. 
 One can know a man from his laugh, and if you like a man's laugh before you know anything of him, you may confidently say that he is a good man. 
 Power is given only to those who dare to lower themselves and pick it up. Only one thing matters, one thing; to be able to dare! 
 Realists do not fear the results of their study. 
 Sarcasm: the last refuge of modest and chaste-souled people when the privacy of their soul is coarsely and intrusively invaded. 
 The cleverest of all, in my opinion, is the man who calls himself a fool at least once a month. 
 The formula 'Two and two make five' is not without its attractions. 
 The greatest happiness is to know the source of unhappiness. 
 The soul is healed by being with children. 
 There are things which a man is afraid to tell even to himself, and every decent man has a number of such things stored away in his mind. 
 There is no subject so old that something new cannot be said about it. 
 To live without Hope is to Cease to live. 
 To love someone means to see him as God intended him. 
 We sometimes encounter people, even perfect strangers, who begin to interest us at first sight, somehow suddenly, all at once, before a word has been spoken. 
===
--Oscar Wilde--
 
A dreamer is one who can only find his way by moonlight, and his punishment is that he sees the dawn before the rest of the world. 
 A gentleman is one who never hurts anyone's feelings unintentionally. 
 A little sincerity is a dangerous thing, and a great deal of it is absolutely fatal. 
 A man can be happy with any woman, as long as he does not love her. 
 A man can't be too careful in the choice of his enemies. 
 A man who does not think for himself does not think at all. 
 A man's face is his autobiography. A woman's face is her work of fiction. 
 A poet can survive everything but a misprint. 
 A thing is not necessarily true because a man dies for it. 
 A true friend stabs you in the front. 
 A work of art is the unique result of a unique temperament. 
 Ah, well, then I suppose I shall have to die beyond my means. 
 Alas, I am dying beyond my means. 
 All art is quite useless. 
 All bad poetry springs from genuine feeling. 
 All women become like their mothers. That is their tragedy. No man does. That's his. 
 Always forgive your enemies - nothing annoys them so much. 
 Ambition is the germ from which all growth of nobleness proceeds. 
 Ambition is the last refuge of the failure. 
 America is the only country that went from barbarism to decadence without civilization in between. 
 An excellent man; he has no enemies; and none of his friends like him. 
 An idea that is not dangerous is unworthy of being called an idea at all. 
 Anybody can be good in the country. There are no temptations there. 
 Arguments are extremely vulgar, for everyone in good society holds exactly the same opinion. 
 Arguments are to be avoided: they are always vulgar and often convincing. 
 Art is the most intense mode of individualism that the world has known. 
 As long as a woman can look ten years younger than her own daughter, she is perfectly satisfied. 
 As long as war is regarded as wicked, it will always have its fascination. When it is looked upon as vulgar, it will cease to be popular. 
 Between men and women there is no friendship possible. There is passion, enmity, worship, love, but no friendship. 
 Bigamy is having one wife too many. Monogamy is the same. 
 Biography lends to death a new terror. 
 By giving us the opinions of the uneducated, journalism keeps us in touch with the ignorance of the community. 
 Charity creates a multitude of sins. 
 Children begin by loving their parents; after a time they judge them; rarely, if ever, do they forgive them. 
 Consistency is the last refuge of the unimaginative. 
 Conversation about the weather is the last refuge of the unimaginative. 
 Death and vulgarity are the only two facts in the nineteenth century that one cannot explain away. 
 Deceiving others. That is what the world calls a romance. 
 Democracy means simply the bludgeoning of the people by the people for the people. 
 Do you really think it is weakness that yields to temptation? I tell you that there are terrible temptations which it requires strength, strength and courage to yield to. 
 Education is an admirable thing, but it is well to remember from time to time that nothing that is worth knowing can be taught. 
 Every portrait that is painted with feeling is a portrait of the artist, not of the sitter. 
 Every saint has a past and every sinner has a future. 
 Everybody who is incapable of learning has taken to teaching. 
 Everything popular is wrong. 
 Experience is one thing you can't get for nothing. 
 Experience is simply the name we give our mistakes. 
 Fashion is a form of ugliness so intolerable that we have to alter it every six months. 
 Fathers should be neither seen nor heard. That is the only proper basis for family life. 
 Hatred is blind, as well as love. 
 He has no enemies, but is intensely disliked by his friends. 
 How can a woman be expected to be happy with a man who insists on treating her as if she were a perfectly normal human being. 
 How marriage ruins a man! It is as demoralizing as cigarettes, and far more expensive. 
 I always pass on good advice. It is the only thing to do with it. It is never of any use to oneself. 
 I am not young enough to know everything. 
 I am so clever that sometimes I don't understand a single word of what I am saying. 
 I am the only person in the world I should like to know thoroughly. 
 I can resist everything except temptation. 
 I can stand brute force, but brute reason is quite unbearable. There is something unfair about its use. It is hitting below the intellect. 
 I choose my friends for their good looks, my acquaintances for their good characters, and my enemies for their intellects. A man cannot be too careful in the choice of his enemies. 
 
I have nothing to declare except my genuis. 
 I have the simplest tastes. I am always satisfied with the best. 
 I like persons better than principles, and I like persons with no principles better than anything else in the world. 
 I never travel without my diary. One should always have something sensational to read in the train. 
 I put all my genius into my life; I put only my talent into my works. 
 I regard the theatre as the greatest of all art forms, the most immediate way in which a human being can share with another the sense of what it is to be a human being. 
 I see when men love women. They give them but a little of their lives. But women when they love give everything. 
 I sometimes think that God in creating man somewhat overestimated his ability. 
 I suppose society is wonderfully delightful. To be in it is merely a bore. But to be out of it is simply a tragedy. 
 I think that God, in creating man, somewhat overestimated his ability. 
 I want my food dead. Not sick, not dying, dead. 
 If one cannot enjoy reading a book over and over again, there is no use in reading it at all. 
 If one could only teach the English how to talk, and the Irish how to listen, society here would be quite civilized. 
 If one plays good music, people don't listen and if one plays bad music people don't talk. 
 If there was less sympathy in the world, there would be less trouble in the world. 
 If you are not too long, I will wait here for you all my life. 
 If you pretend to be good, the world takes you very seriously. If you pretend to be bad, it doesn't. Such is the astounding stupidity of optimism. 
 Illusion is the first of all pleasures. 
 In all matters of opinion, our adversaries are insane. 
 In America the President reigns for four years, and Journalism governs forever and ever. 
 
In America the young are always ready to give to those who are older than themselves the full benefits of their inexperience. 
 In married life three is company and two none. 
 In modern life nothing produces such an effect as a good platitude. It makes the whole world kin. 
 It is a very sad thing that nowadays there is so little useless information. 
 It is absurd to divide people into good and bad. People are either charming or tedious. 
 It is always the unreadable that occurs. 
 It is better to be beautiful than to be good. But... it is better to be good than to be ugly. 
 It is better to have a permanent income than to be fascinating. 
 It is only an auctioneer who can equally and impartially admire all schools of art. 
 It is only by not paying one's bills that one can hope to live in the memory of the commercial classes. 
 It is only the modern that ever becomes old-fashioned. 
 It is through art, and through art only, that we can realise our perfection. 
 It is what you read when you don't have to that determines what you will be when you can't help it. 
 Keep love in your heart. A life without it is like a sunless garden when the flowers are dead. 
 Laughter is not at all a bad beginning for a friendship, and it is far the best ending for one. 
 Life imitates art far more than art imitates Life. 
 Life is far too important a thing ever to talk seriously about. 
 Life is never fair, and perhaps it is a good thing for most of us that it is not. 
 Life is too important to be taken seriously. 
 Man can believe the impossible, but man can never believe the improbable. 
 
Man is a rational animal who always loses his temper when he is called upon to act in accordance with the dictates of reason. 
 Man is least himself when he talks in his own person. Give him a mask, and he will tell you the truth. 
 Memory... is the diary that we all carry about with us. 
 Men always want to be a woman's first love - women like to be a man's last romance. 
 Men marry because they are tired; women, because they are curious; both are disappointed. 
 Moderation is a fatal thing. Nothing succeeds like excess. 
 Morality is simply the attitude we adopt towards people whom we personally dislike. 
 Most people are other people. Their thoughts are someone else's opinions, their lives a mimicry, their passions a quotation. 
 Most people die of a sort of creeping common sense, and discover when it is too late that the only things one never regrets are one's mistakes. 
 Mr. Henry James writes fiction as if it were a painful duty. 
 No great artist ever sees things as they really are. If he did, he would cease to be an artist. 
 No man is rich enough to buy back his past. 
 No object is so beautiful that, under certain conditions, it will not look ugly. 
 No woman should ever be quite accurate about her age. It looks so calculating. 
 Nothing can cure the soul but the senses, just as nothing can cure the senses but the soul. 
 Nothing is so aggravating than calmness. 
 Now that the House of Commons is trying to become useful, it does a great deal of harm. 
 One can survive everything, nowadays, except death, and live down everything except a good reputation. 
 One of the many lessons that one learns in prison is, that things are what they are and will be what they will be. 
 One should always be in love. That is the reason one should never marry. 
 
One should always play fairly when one has the winning cards. 
 One's past is what one is. It is the only way by which people should be judged. 
 One's real life is so often the life that one does not lead. 
 Only the shallow know themselves. 
 Ordinary riches can be stolen; real riches cannot. In your soul are infinitely precious things that cannot be taken from you. 
 Our ambition should be to rule ourselves, the true kingdom for each one of us; and true progress is to know more, and be more, and to do more. 
 Patriotism is the virtue of the vicious. 
 Perhaps, after all, America never has been discovered. I myself would say that it had merely been detected. 
 Pessimist: One who, when he has the choice of two evils, chooses both. 
 Questions are never indiscreet, answers sometimes are. 
 Quotation is a serviceable substitute for wit. 
 Ridicule is the tribute paid to the genius by the mediocrities. 
 Romance should never begin with sentiment. It should begin with science and end with a settlement. 
 Selfishness is not living as one wishes to live, it is asking others to live as one wishes to live. 
 Seriousness is the only refuge of the shallow. 
 Society exists only as a mental concept; in the real world there are only individuals. 
 Some cause happiness wherever they go; others whenever they go. 
 Success is a science; if you have the conditions, you get the result. 
 The advantage of the emotions is that they lead us astray. 
 The basis of optimism is sheer terror. The books that the world calls immoral are books that show the world its own shame. 
 The critic has to educate the public; the artist has to educate the critic. 
 The difference between literature and journalism is that journalism is unreadable and literature is not read. 
 The good ended happily, and the bad unhappily. That is what fiction means. 
 The imagination imitates. It is the critical spirit that creates. 
 The man who can dominate a London dinner-table can dominate the world. 
 The moment you think you understand a great work of art, it's dead for you. 
 The old believe everything, the middle-aged suspect everything, the young know everything. 
 The one charm about marriage is that it makes a life of deception absolutely necessary for both parties. 
 The only thing to do with good advice is to pass it on. It is never of any use to oneself. 
 The only way to get rid of temptation is to yield to it... I can resist everything but temptation. 
 The public is wonderfully tolerant. It forgives everything except genius. 
 The pure and simple truth is rarely pure and never simple. 
 The salesman knows nothing of what he is selling save that he is charging a great deal too much for it. 
 The true mystery of the world is the visible, not the invisible. 
 The truth is rarely pure and never simple. 
 The typewriting machine, when played with expression, is no more annoying than the piano when played by a sister or near relation. 
 The well bred contradict other people. The wise contradict themselves. 
 The world has grown suspicious of anything that looks like a happily married life. 
 The world is a stage, but the play is badly cast. 
 The world is divided into two classes, those who believe the incredible, and those who do the improbable. 
 There are many things that we would throw away if we were not afraid that others might pick them up. 
 There are only two kinds of people who are really fascinating - people who know absolutely everything, and people who know absolutely nothing. 
 There are only two tragedies in life: one is not getting what one wants, and the other is getting it. 
 There is a luxury in self-reproach. When we blame ourselves we feel no one else has a right to blame us. 
 There is always something infinitely mean about other people's tragedies. 
 There is always something ridiculous about the emotions of people whom one has ceased to love. 
 There is no necessity to separate the monarch from the mob; all authority is equally bad. 
 There is no sin except stupidity. 
 There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book. Books are well written, or badly written. 
 There is nothing in the world like the devotion of a married woman. It is a thing no married man knows anything about. 
 There is nothing so difficult to marry as a large nose. 
 There is only one class in the community that thinks more about money than the rich, and that is the poor. The poor can think of nothing else. 
 There is only one thing in life worse than being talked about, and that is not being talked about. 
 There is something terribly morbid in the modern sympathy with pain. One should sympathise with the colour, the beauty, the joy of life. The less said about life's sores the better. 
 There's nothing in the world like the devotion of a married woman. It's a thing no married man knows anything about. 
 This suspense is terrible. I hope it will last. 
 Those whom the gods love grow young. 
 To expect the unexpected shows a thoroughly modern intellect. 
 To lose one parent may be regarded as a misfortune; to lose both looks like carelessness. To love oneself is the beginning of a lifelong romance. 
 True friends stab you in the front. 
 We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars. 
 What is a cynic? A man who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing. 
 What we have to do, what at any rate it is our duty to do, is to revive the old art of Lying. 
 When a man has once loved a woman he will do anything for her except continue to love her. 
 When good Americans die they go to Paris. 
 When I was young I thought that money was the most important thing in life; now that I am old I know that it is. 
 When the gods wish to punish us they answer our prayers. 
 Whenever a man does a thoroughly stupid thing, it is always from the noblest motives. 
 Whenever people agree with me I always feel I must be wrong. 
 While we look to the dramatist to give romance to realism, we ask of the actor to give realism to romance. 
 Who, being loved, is poor? 
 Why was I born with such contemporaries? 
 Woman begins by resisting a man's advances and ends by blocking his retreat. 
 Women are made to be loved, not understood. 
 Women are never disarmed by compliments. Men always are. That is the difference between the sexes. 
 Women love us for our defects. If we have enough of them, they will forgive us everything, even our gigantic intellects. 
 Work is the curse of the drinking classes. 
 
===
--William Shakespeare--
A fool thinks himself to be wise, but a wise man knows himself to be a fool. 
 A man loves the meat in his youth that he cannot endure in his age. 
 A peace is of the nature of a conquest; for then both parties nobly are subdued, and neither party loser. 
 Absence from those we love is self from self - a deadly banishment. 
 Alas, I am a woman friendless, hopeless! 
 All the world's a stage, and all the men and women merely players: they have their exits and their entrances; and one man in his time plays many parts, his acts being seven ages. 
 Ambition should be made of sterner stuff. 
 An overflow of good converts to bad. 
 And oftentimes excusing of a fault doth make the fault the worse by the excuse. 
 And this, our life, exempt from public haunt, finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, sermons in stones, and good in everything. 
 As flies to wanton boys, are we to the gods; they kill us for their sport. 
 As he was valiant, I honour him. But as he was ambitious, I slew him. 
 As soon go kindle fire with snow, as seek to quench the fire of love with words. 
 Be not afraid of greatness: some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them. 
 Better a witty fool than a foolish wit. 
 Better three hours too soon than a minute too late. 
 Boldness be my friend. 
 Brevity is the soul of wit. 
 But men are men; the best sometimes forget. 
 But O, how bitter a thing it is to look into happiness through another man's eyes. 
 
By that sin fell the angels. 
 Children wish fathers looked but with their eyes; fathers that children with their judgment looked; and either may be wrong. 
 Come, gentlemen, I hope we shall drink down all unkindness. 
 Cowards die many times before their deaths; the valiant never taste of death but once. 
 Death is a fearful thing. 
 Desire of having is the sin of covetousness. 
 Everyone ought to bear patiently the results of his own conduct. 
 Exceeds man's might: that dwells with the gods above. 
 Expectation is the root of all heartache. 
 Faith, there hath been many great men that have flattered the people who ne'er loved them. 
 False face must hide what the false heart doth know. 
 Farewell, fair cruelty. 
 Fishes live in the sea, as men do a-land; the great ones eat up the little ones. 
 For I can raise no money by vile means. 
 For my part, it was Greek to me. 
 Fortune brings in some boats that are not steered. 
 Give every man thy ear, but few thy voice. 
 Give me my robe, put on my crown; I have Immortal longings in me. 
 Give thy thoughts no tongue. 
 Go to you bosom: Knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know. 
 
God has given you one face, and you make yourself another. 
 God hath given you one face, and you make yourselves another. 
 Having nothing, nothing can he lose. 
 He does it with better grace, but I do it more natural. 
 He is winding the watch of his wit; by and by it will strike. 
 He that is giddy thinks the world turns round. 
 He that loves to be flattered is worthy o' the flatterer. 
 Heat not a furnace for your foe so hot that it do singe yourself. 
 Hell is empty and all the devils are here. 
 How far that little candle throws its beams! So shines a good deed in a naughty world. 
 How oft the sight of means to do ill deeds makes ill deeds done! 
 How poor are they that have not patience! What wound did ever heal but by degrees? 
 How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is to have a thankless child! 
 How well he's read, to reason against reading! 
 I am not bound to please thee with my answer. 
 I bear a charmed life. 
 I dote on his very absence. 
 I had rather have a fool to make me merry than experience to make me sad and to travel for it too! 
 I hold the world but as the world, Gratiano; A stage where every man must play a part, And mine is a sad one. 
 I like not fair terms and a villain's mind. 
 
I may neither choose who I would, nor refuse who I dislike; so is the will of a living daughter curbed by the will of a dead father. 
 I never see thy face but I think upon hell-fire. 
 I say there is no darkness but ignorance. 
 I see that the fashion wears out more apparel than the man. 
 I shall the effect of this good lesson keeps as watchman to my heart. 
 I was adored once too. 
 I wasted time, and now doth time waste me. 
 I were better to be eaten to death with a rust than to be scoured to nothing with perpetual motion. 
 I will praise any man that will praise me. 
 If it be a sin to covet honor, I am the most offending soul. 
 If music be the food of love, play on. 
 If to do were as easy as to know what were good to do, chapels had been churches, and poor men's cottage princes' palaces. 
 If we are marked to die, we are enough to do our country loss; and if to live, the fewer men, the greater share of honor. 
 If you can look into the seeds of time, and say which grain will grow and which will not, speak then unto me. 
 If you have tears, prepare to shed them now. 
 If you prick us do we not bleed? If you tickle us do we not laugh? If you poison us do we not die? And if you wrong us shall we not revenge? 
 Ignorance is the curse of God; knowledge is the wing wherewith we fly to heaven. 
 In a false quarrel there is no true valor. 
 In time we hate that which we often fear. 
 Is it not strange that desire should so many years outlive performance? 
 It is a wise father that knows his own child. 
 It is neither good nor bad, but thinking makes it so. 
 It is not in the stars to hold our destiny but in ourselves. 
 It is the stars, The stars above us, govern our conditions. 
 It will have blood, they say; blood will have blood. 
 Lawless are they that make their wills their law. 
 Let every eye negotiate for itself and trust no agent. 
 Let me embrace thee, sour adversity, for wise men say it is the wisest course. 
 Let no such man be trusted. 
 Life every man holds dear; but the dear man holds honor far more precious dear than life. 
 Life is as tedious as twice-told tale, vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man. 
 Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player, that struts and frets his hour upon the stage, and then is heard no more; it is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing. 
 Like as the waves make towards the pebbl'd shore, so do our minutes, hasten to their end. 
 Listen to many, speak to a few. 
 Lord, Lord, how subject we old men are to this vice of lying! 
 Love all, trust a few, do wrong to none. 
 Love is a smoke made with the fume of sighs. 
 Love is not love that alters when it alteration finds. 
 Love is too young to know what conscience is. 
 Love sought is good, but given unsought, is better. 
 Love to faults is always blind, always is to joy inclined. Lawless, winged, and unconfined, and breaks all chains from every mind. 
 Maids want nothing but husbands, and when they have them, they want everything. 
 Many a good hanging prevents a bad marriage. 
 Men are April when they woo, December when they wed. Maids are May when they are maids, but the sky changes when they are wives. 
 Men shut their doors against a setting sun. 
 Men's vows are women's traitors! 
 Mind your speech a little lest you should mar your fortunes. 
 Modest doubt is called the beacon of the wise. 
 Most dangerous is that temptation that doth goad us on to sin in loving virtue. 
 My crown is called content, a crown that seldom kings enjoy. 
 My pride fell with my fortunes. 
 Nature hath framed strange fellows in her time. 
 Neither a borrower nor a lender be. 
 No legacy is so rich as honesty. 
 No, I will be the pattern of all patience; I will say nothing. 
 Nothing can come of nothing. 
 Now is the winter of our discontent. 
 Now, God be praised, that to believing souls gives light in darkness, comfort in despair. 
 O God, O God, how weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable seem to me all the uses of this world! 
 O thou invisible spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by, let us call thee devil. 
 O, had I but followed the arts! 
 O, what a goodly outside falsehood hath! 
 O! for a muse of fire, that would ascend the brightest heaven of invention. 
 O! Let me not be mad, not mad, sweet heaven; keep me in temper; I would not be mad! 
 O' What may man within him hide, though angel on the outward side! 
 One touch of nature makes the whole world kin. 
 Our doubts are traitors and make us lose the good we oft might win by fearing to attempt. 
 Our peace shall stand as firm as rocky mountains. 
 Parting is such sweet sorrow. 
 Pleasure and action make the hours seem short. 
 Poor and content is rich, and rich enough. 
 Praise us as we are tasted, allow us as we prove. 
 Reputation is an idle and most false imposition; oft got without merit, and lost without deserving. 
 So foul and fair a day I have not seen. 
 Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them. 
 Some rise by sin, and some by virtue fall. 
 Speak low, if you speak love. 
 Such as we are made of, such we be. 
 Suit the action to the word, the word to the action. 
 Suspicion always haunts the guilty mind. 
 
Sweet are the uses of adversity which, like the toad, ugly and venomous, wears yet a precious jewel in his head. 
 Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge. 
 Talking isn't doing. It is a kind of good deed to say well; and yet words are not deeds. 
 Teach not thy lip such scorn, for it was made For kissing, lady, not for such contempt. 
 The attempt and not the deed confounds us. 
 The course of true love never did run smooth. 
 The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose. 
 The empty vessel makes the loudest sound. 
 The evil that men do lives after them; the good is oft interred with their bones. 
 The fashion of the world is to avoid cost, and you encounter it. 
 The golden age is before us, not behind us. 
 The lady doth protest too much, methinks. 
 The love of heaven makes one heavenly. 
 The lunatic, the lover, and the poet, are of imagination all compact. 
 The man that hath no music in himself, Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds, is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils. 
 The most peaceable way for you, if you do take a thief, is, to let him show himself what he is and steal out of your company. 
 The robbed that smiles, steals something from the thief. 
 The stroke of death is as a lover's pinch, which hurts and is desired. 
 The undiscovered country from whose bourn no traveler returns. 
 The valiant never taste of death but once. 
 
Sweet are the uses of adversity which, like the toad, ugly and venomous, wears yet a precious jewel in his head. 
 Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge. 
 Talking isn't doing. It is a kind of good deed to say well; and yet words are not deeds. 
 Teach not thy lip such scorn, for it was made For kissing, lady, not for such contempt. 
 The attempt and not the deed confounds us. 
 The course of true love never did run smooth. 
 The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose. 
 The empty vessel makes the loudest sound. 
 The evil that men do lives after them; the good is oft interred with their bones. 
 The fashion of the world is to avoid cost, and you encounter it. 
 The golden age is before us, not behind us. 
 The lady doth protest too much, methinks. 
 The love of heaven makes one heavenly. 
 The lunatic, the lover, and the poet, are of imagination all compact. 
 The man that hath no music in himself, Nor is not moved with concord of sweet sounds, is fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils. 
 The most peaceable way for you, if you do take a thief, is, to let him show himself what he is and steal out of your company. 
 The robbed that smiles, steals something from the thief. 
 The stroke of death is as a lover's pinch, which hurts and is desired. 
 The undiscovered country from whose bourn no traveler returns. 
 The valiant never taste of death but once. 
 'Tis one thing to be tempted, another thing to fall. 
 To be, or not to be: that is the question. 
 To do a great right do a little wrong. 
 To thine own self be true, and it must follow, as the night the day, thou canst not then be false to any man. 
 Truly, I would not hang a dog by my will, much more a man who hath any honesty in him. 
 Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown. 
 Use every man after his desert, and who should scape whipping? 
 Virtue is bold, and goodness never fearful. 
 Virtue itself scapes not calumnious strokes. 
 We are time's subjects, and time bids be gone. 
 We cannot conceive of matter being formed of nothing, since things require a seed to start from... Therefore there is not anything which returns to nothing, but all things return dissolved into their elements. 
 We know what we are, but know not what we may be. 
 Well, if Fortune be a woman, she's a good wench for this gear. 
 What a piece of work is a man, how noble in reason, how infinite in faculties, in form and moving how express and admirable, in action how like an angel, in apprehension how like a god. 
 What is past is prologue. 
 What, man, defy the devil. Consider, he's an enemy to mankind. 
 What's done can't be undone. 
 What's in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet. 
 When a father gives to his son, both laugh; when a son gives to his father, both cry. 
 When sorrows come, they come not single spies, but in battalions. 
 
When we are born we cry that we are come to this great stage of fools. 
 When words are scarce they are seldom spent in vain. 
 Where every something, being blent together turns to a wild of nothing. 
 Who could refrain that had a heart to love and in that heart courage to make love known? 
 Wisely, and slow. They stumble that run fast. 
 With mirth and laughter let old wrinkles come. 
 Women may fall when there's no strength in men. 
 Words without thoughts never to heaven go. 
 Words, words, mere words, no matter from the heart. 
 ===
--Arthur Conan Doyle--
A client is to me a mere unit, a factor in a problem.
 A man should keep his little brain attic stocked with all the furniture that he is likely to use, and the rest he can put away in the lumber-room of his library, where he can get it if he wants it. 
 A trusty comrade is always of use; and a chronicler still more so. 
 Any truth is better than indefinite doubt. 
 As a rule, said Holmes, the more bizarre a thing is the less mysterious it proves to be. It is your commonplace, featureless crimes which are really puzzling, just as a commonplace face is the most difficult to identify. 
 As Cuvier could correctly describe a whole animal by the contemplation of a single bone, so the observer who has thoroughly understood one link in a series of incidents should be able to accurately state all the other ones, both before and after. 
 Circumstantial evidence is occasionally very convincing, as when you find a trout in the milk, to quote Thoreau's example. 
 Depend upon it there comes a time when for every addition of knowledge you forget something that you knew before. It is of the highest importance, therefore, not to have useless facts elbowing out the useful ones. 
 For strange effects and extraordinary combinations we must go to life itself, which is always far more daring than any effort of the imagination. 
 From a drop of water a logician could infer the possibility of an Atlantic or a Niagara without having seen or heard of one or the other. 
 His ignorance was as remarkable as his knowledge. 
 How often have I said to you that when you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth? 
 I consider that a man's brain originally is like a little empty attic, and you have to stock it with such furniture as you choose. 
 I have frequently gained my first real insight into the character of parents by studying their children. 
 I have seen too much not to know that the impression of a woman may be more valuable than the conclusion of an analytical reasoner. 
 I never guess. It is a shocking habit destructive to the logical faculty. 
 It has long been an axiom of mine that the little things are infinitely the most important. 
 It is a capital mistake to theorize before one has data. 
 It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth. 
 London, that great cesspool into which all the loungers and idlers of the Empire are irresistibly drained. 
 
Mediocrity knows nothing higher than itself, but talent instantly recognizes genius. 
 My mind rebels at stagnation. Give me problems, give me work, give me the most abstruse cryptogram, or the most intricate analysis, and I am in my own proper atmosphere. But I abhor the dull routine of existence. I crave for mental exaltation. 
 Nothing clears up a case so much as stating it to another person. 
 Of all ghosts the ghosts of our old loves are the worst. 
 Once you eliminate the impossible, whatever remains, no matter how improbable, must be the truth. 
 Our ideas must be as broad as Nature if they are to interpret Nature. 
 Sir Walter, with his 61 years of life, although he never wrote a novel until he was over 40, had, fortunately for the world, a longer working career than most of his brethren. 
 Some facts should be suppressed, or, at least, a just sense of proportion should be observed in treating them. 
 The ideal reasoner, he remarked, would, when he had once been shown a single fact in all its bearings, deduce from it not only all the chain of events which led up to it but also all the results which would follow from it. 
 The lowest and vilest alleys of London do not present a more dreadful record of sin than does the smiling and beautiful countryside. 
 The most difficult crime to track is the one which is purposeless. 
 There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact. 
 There is nothing more unaesthetic than a policeman. 
 To the man who loves art for its own sake, it is frequently in its least important and lowliest manifestations that the keenest pleasure is to be derived. 
 Violence does, in truth, recoil upon the violent, and the schemer falls into the pit which he digs for another. 
 We can't command our love, but we can our actions. 
 When a doctor does go wrong he is the first of criminals. He has nerve and he has knowledge. 
 When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth. 
 Where there is no imagination there is no horror. 
 Women are naturally secretive, and they like to do their own secreting. 
 
You will, I am sure, agree with me that... if page 534 only finds us in the second chapter, the length of the first one must have been really intolerable. 
 ===
--Edgar Rice Burroughs--
I write to escape; to escape poverty.
===
--Jules Verne--
Everybody knows that the great reversed triangle of land, with its base in the north and its apex in the south, which is called India, embraces fourteen hundred thousand square miles, upon which is spread unequally a population of one hundred and eighty millions of souls. 
 I believe cats to be spirits come to earth. A cat, I am sure, could walk on a cloud without coming through. 
 Liberty is worth paying for. 
 On the morrow the horizon was covered with clouds- a thick and impenetrable curtain between earth and sky, which unhappily extended as far as the Rocky Mountains. It was a fatality! 
 Science, my lad, is made up of mistakes, but they are mistakes which it is useful to make, because they lead little by little to the truth. 
 The Nautilus was piercing the water with its sharp spur, after having accomplished nearly ten thousand leagues in three months and a half, a distance greater than the great circle of the earth. Where were we going now, and what was reserved for the future? 
 The sea is everything. It covers seven tenths of the terrestrial globe. Its breath is pure and healthy. It is an immense desert, where man is never lonely, for he feels life stirring on all sides. 
 We may brave human laws, but we cannot resist natural ones. 
 We were alone. Where, I could not say, hardly imagine. All was black, and such a dense black that, after some minutes, my eyes had not been able to discern even the faintest glimmer. 
===
--Abraham Lincoln--
A friend is one who has the same enemies as you have. 
A house divided against itself cannot stand. 
A woman is the only thing I am afraid of that I know will not hurt me. 
All my life I have tried to pluck a thistle and plant a flower wherever the flower would grow in thought and mind. 
All that I am, or hope to be, I owe to my angel mother. 
Allow the president to invade a neighboring nation, whenever he shall deem it necessary to repel an invasion, and you allow him to do so whenever he may choose to say he deems it necessary for such a purpose - and you allow him to make war at pleasure. 
Always bear in mind that your own resolution to succeed is more important than any other. 
Am I not destroying my enemies when I make friends of them? 
America will never be destroyed from the outside. If we falter and lose our freedoms, it will be because we destroyed ourselves. 
Any people anywhere, being inclined and having the power, have the right to rise up, and shake off the existing government, and form a new one that suits them better. This is a most valuable - a most sacred right - a right, which we hope and believe, is to liberate the world. 
As I would not be a slave, so I would not be a master. This expresses my idea of democracy. 
As our case is new, we must think and act anew. 
Avoid popularity if you would have peace. 
Ballots are the rightful and peaceful successors to bullets. 
Be sure you put your feet in the right place, then stand firm. 
Books serve to show a man that those original thoughts of his aren't very new at all. 
Character is like a tree and reputation like a shadow. The shadow is what we think of it; the tree is the real thing. 
Common looking people are the best in the world: that is the reason the Lord makes so many of them. 
Die when I may, I want it said by those who knew me best that I always plucked a thistle and planted a flower where I thought a flower would grow. 
Discourage litigation. Persuade your neighbors to compromise whenever you can. As a peacemaker the lawyer has superior opportunity of being a good man. There will still be business enough. 
Don't interfere with anything in the Constitution. That must be maintained, for it is the only safeguard of our liberties. 
Don't worry when you are not recognized, but strive to be worthy of recognition. 
Every man is said to have his peculiar ambition. Whether it be true or not, I can say for one that I have no other so great as that of being truly esteemed of my fellow men, by rendering myself worthy of their esteem. 
Every one desires to live long, but no one would be old. 
Everybody likes a compliment. 
Fourscore and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent, a new nation, conceived in Liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. 
Give me six hours to chop down a tree and I will spend the first four sharpening the axe. 
God must love the common man, he made so many of them. 
Government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the Earth. 
He has a right to criticize, who has a heart to help. 
He who molds the public sentiment... makes statutes and decisions possible or impossible to make. 
Hold on with a bulldog grip, and chew and choke as much as possible. 
How many legs does a dog have if you call the tail a leg? Four. Calling a tail a leg doesn't make it a leg. 
I am a firm believer in the people. If given the truth, they can be depended upon to meet any national crisis. The great point is to bring them the real facts. 
I am not bound to win, but I am bound to be true. I am not bound to succeed, but I am bound to live by the light that I have. I must stand with anybody that stands right, and stand with him while he is right, and part with him when he goes wrong. 
I can make more generals, but horses cost money. 
I care not much for a man's religion whose dog and cat are not the better for it. 
I desire so to conduct the affairs of this administration that if at the end... I have lost every other friend on earth, I shall at least have one friend left, and that friend shall be down inside of me. 
I destroy my enemies when I make them my friends. 
I do not think much of a man who is not wiser today than he was yesterday. I do the very best I know how - the very best I can; and I mean to keep on doing so until the end. 
I don't know who my grandfather was; I am much more concerned to know what his grandson will be. 
I don't like that man. I must get to know him better. 
I have always found that mercy bears richer fruits than strict justice. 
I hope to stand firm enough to not go backward, and yet not go forward fast enough to wreck the country's cause. 
I like to see a man proud of the place in which he lives. I like to see a man live so that his place will be proud of him. 
I never had a policy; I have just tried to do my very best each and every day. 
I remember my mother's prayers and they have always followed me. They have clung to me all my life. 
I walk slowly, but I never walk backward. 
I want it said of me by those who knew me best, that I always plucked a thistle and planted a flower where I thought a flower would grow. 
I was losing interest in politics, when the repeal of the Missouri Compromise aroused me again. What I have done since then is pretty well known. 
I will prepare and some day my chance will come. 
I'm a slow walker, but I never walk back. 
If I had eight hours to chop down a tree, I'd spend six hours sharpening my ax. 
If I were to try to read, much less answer, all the attacks made on me, this shop might as well be closed for any other business. 
If I were two-faced, would I be wearing this one? 
If once you forfeit the confidence of your fellow-citizens, you can never regain their respect and esteem. 
If there is anything that a man can do well, I say let him do it. Give him a chance. 
If this is coffee, please bring me some tea; but if this is tea, please bring me some coffee. 
If we could first know where we are, and whither we are tending, we could then better judge what to do, and how to do it. If you call a tail a leg, how many legs has a dog? Five? No, calling a tail a leg don't make it a leg. 
Important principles may, and must, be inflexible. 
In great contests each party claims to act in accordance with the will of God. Both may be, and one must be wrong. 
In the end, it's not the years in your life that count. It's the life in your years. 
It has been my experience that folks who have no vices have very few virtues. 
It is better to remain silent and be thought a fool than to open one's mouth and remove all doubt. 
Knavery and flattery are blood relations. 
Labor is prior to, and independent of, capital. Capital is only the fruit of labor, and could never have existed if labor had not first existed. Labor is the superior of capital, and deserves much the higher consideration. 
Let not him who is houseless pull down the house of another, but let him work diligently and build one for himself, thus by example assuring that his own shall be safe from violence when built. 
Lets have faith that right makes might; and in that faith let us, to the end, dare to do our duty as we understand it. 
Marriage is neither heaven nor hell, it is simply purgatory. 
Most folks are as happy as they make up their minds to be. 
My dream is of a place and a time where America will once again be seen as the last best hope of earth. 
My great concern is not whether you have failed, but whether you are content with your failure. 
Nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to test a man's character, give him power. 
Never stir up litigation. A worse man can scarcely be found than one who does this. 
No man has a good enough memory to be a successful liar. 
No man is good enough to govern another man without that other's consent. 
No matter how much cats fight, there always seem to be plenty of kittens. 
Our defense is in the preservation of the spirit which prizes liberty as a heritage of all men, in all lands, everywhere. Destroy this spirit and you have planted the seeds of despotism around your own doors. 
People are just as happy as they make up their minds to be. 
Public opinion in this country is everything. 
Public sentiment is everything. With public sentiment, nothing can fail. Without it, nothing can succeed. 
Republicans are for both the man and the dollar, but in case of conflict the man before the dollar. 
Sir, my concern is not whether God is on our side; my greatest concern is to be on God's side, for God is always right. 
Some day I shall be President. 
Some single mind must be master, else there will be no agreement in anything. 
Stand with anybody that stands right, stand with him while he is right and part with him when he goes wrong. 
Surely God would not have created such a being as man, with an ability to grasp the infinite, to exist only for a day! No, no, man was made for immortality. 
Tact is the ability to describe others as they see themselves. 
That some achieve great success, is proof to all that others can achieve it as well. 
The assertion that "all men are created equal" was of no practical use in effecting our separation from Great Britain and it was placed in the Declaration not for that, but for future use. 
The ballot is stronger than the bullet. 
The best thing about the future is that it comes one day at a time. 
The best way to destroy an enemy is to make him a friend. 
The best way to get a bad law repealed is to enforce it strictly. 
The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present. The occasion is piled high with difficulty, and we must rise with the occasion. As our case is new, so we must think anew and act anew. 
The highest art is always the most religious, and the greatest artist is always a devout person. 
The Lord prefers common-looking people. That is why he makes so many of them. 
The people themselves, and not their servants, can safely reverse their own deliberate decisions. The people will save their government, if the government itself will allow them. 
The philosophy of the school room in one generation will be the philosophy of government in the next. 
The probability that we may fail in the struggle ought not to deter us from the support of a cause we believe to be just. 
The shepherd drives the wolf from the sheep's for which the sheep thanks the shepherd as his liberator, while the wolf denounces him for the same act as the destroyer of liberty. Plainly, the sheep and the wolf are not agreed upon a definition of liberty. 
The things I want to know are in books; my best friend is the man who'll get me a book I ain't read. 
The time comes upon every public man when it is best for him to keep his lips closed. 
The way for a young man to rise is to improve himself in every way he can, never suspecting that anybody wishes to hinder him. 
There is another old poet whose name I do not now remember who said, "Truth is the daughter of Time." 
There is nothing true anywhere, The true is nowhere to be seen; If you say you see the true, This seeing is not the true one. 
These capitalists generally act harmoniously and in concert, to fleece the people. 
These men ask for just the same thing, fairness, and fairness only. This, so far as in my power, they, and all others, shall have. 
Things may come to those who wait, but only the things left by those who hustle. 
This country, with its institutions, belongs to the people who inhabit it. Whenever they shall grow weary of the existing government, they can exercise their constitutional right of amending it, or exercise their revolutionary right to overthrow it. 
Those who deny freedom to others deserve it not for themselves. 
To give victory to the right, not bloody bullets, but peaceful ballots only, are necessary. 
To sin by silence when they should protest makes cowards of men. 
Towering genius disdains a beaten path. It seeks regions hitherto unexplored. 
We should be too big to take offense and too noble to give it. 
We the people are the rightful masters of both Congress and the courts, not to overthrow the Constitution but to overthrow the men who pervert the Constitution. 
What kills a skunk is the publicity it gives itself. Whatever you are, be a good one. 
When I am getting ready to reason with a man, I spend one-third of my time thinking about myself and what I am going to say and two-thirds about him and what he is going to say. 
When I do good, I feel good. When I do bad, I feel bad. That's my religion. 
When I hear a man preach, I like to see him act as if he were fighting bees. 
When you have got an elephant by the hind legs and he is trying to run away, it's best to let him run. 
Whenever I hear anyone arguing for slavery, I feel a strong impulse to see it tried on him personally. 
With Malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right, as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds. 
With public sentiment, nothing can fail. Without it, nothing can succeed. 
With the fearful strain that is on me night and day, if I did not laugh I should die. 
You can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time. 
You cannot build character and courage by taking away a man's initiative and independence. 
You cannot escape the responsibility of tomorrow by evading it today. 
You have to do your own growing no matter how tall your grandfather was. 
===
--Alexandre Dumas--
A person who doubts himself is like a man who would enlist in the ranks of his enemies and bear arms against himself. He makes his failure certain by himself being the first person to be convinced of it. 
 All for one and one for all. 
 All for one, one for all, that is our device. 
 All for one, one for all. 
 All generalizations are dangerous, even this one. 
 All human wisdom is summed up in two words; wait and hope. 
 Business? It's quite simple; it's other people's money. 
 Happiness is like those palaces in fairy tales whose gates are guarded by dragons: we must fight in order to conquer it. 
 He was thinking alone, and seriously racking his brain to find a direction for this single force four times multiplied, with which he did not doubt, as with the lever for which Archimedes sought, they should succeed in moving the world, when some one tapped gently at his door. 
 How is it that little children are so intelligent and men so stupid? It must be education that does it. 
 I prefer rogues to imbeciles, because they sometimes take a rest. 
 If God were suddenly condemned to live the life which He has inflicted upon men, He would kill Himself. 
 Infatuated, half through conceit, half through love of my art, I achieve the impossible working as no one else ever works. 
 It is almost as difficult to keep a first class person in a fourth class job, as it is to keep a fourth class person in a first class job. 
 It is rare that one can see in a little boy the promise of a man, but one can almost always see in a little girl the threat of a woman. 
 Nothing succeeds like success. 
 Only a man who has felt ultimate despair is capable of feeling ultimate bliss. 
 Pure love and suspicion cannot dwell together: at the door where the latter enters, the former makes its exit.
===
--Aristotle--
A constitution is the arrangement of magistracies in a state. 
 A friend to all is a friend to none. 
 A great city is not to be confounded with a populous one. 
 A sense is what has the power of receiving into itself the sensible forms of things without the matter, in the way in which a piece of wax takes on the impress of a signet-ring without the iron or gold. 
 A tragedy is a representation of an action that is whole and complete and of a certain magnitude. A whole is what has a beginning and middle and end. 
 A true friend is one soul in two bodies. 
 A tyrant must put on the appearance of uncommon devotion to religion. Subjects are less apprehensive of illegal treatment from a ruler whom they consider god-fearing and pious. On the other hand, they do less easily move against him, believing that he has the gods on his side. 
 All human actions have one or more of these seven causes: chance, nature, compulsions, habit, reason, passion, desire. 
 All men by nature desire knowledge. 
 All paid jobs absorb and degrade the mind. 
 All virtue is summed up in dealing justly. 
 Anybody can become angry - that is easy, but to be angry with the right person and to the right degree and at the right time and for the right purpose, and in the right way - that is not within everybody's power and is not easy. 
 At his best, man is the noblest of all animals; separated from law and justice he is the worst. 
 Bad men are full of repentance. 
 Bashfulness is an ornament to youth, but a reproach to old age. 
 Both oligarch and tyrant mistrust the people, and therefore deprive them of their arms. 
 Bring your desires down to your present means. Increase them only when your increased means permit. 
 Change in all things is sweet. 
 Character may almost be called the most effective means of persuasion. 
 Courage is a mean with regard to fear and confidence. 
 
Courage is the first of human qualities because it is the quality which guarantees the others. 
 Democracy arises out of the notion that those who are equal in any respect are equal in all respects; because men are equally free, they claim to be absolutely equal. 
 Democracy is when the indigent, and not the men of property, are the rulers. 
 Different men seek after happiness in different ways and by different means, and so make for themselves different modes of life and forms of government. 
 Dignity does not consist in possessing honors, but in deserving them. 
 Education is an ornament in prosperity and a refuge in adversity. 
 Education is the best provision for old age. 
 Even when laws have been written down, they ought not always to remain unaltered. 
 Every art and every inquiry, and similarly every action and choice, is thought to aim at some good; and for this reason the good has rightly been declared to be that at which all things aim. 
 Excellence is an art won by training and habituation. We do not act rightly because we have virtue or excellence, but we rather have those because we have acted rightly. We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act but a habit. 
 Excellence, then, is a state concerned with choice, lying in a mean, relative to us, this being determined by reason and in the way in which the man of practical wisdom would determine it. 
 Fear is pain arising from the anticipation of evil. 
 For as the eyes of bats are to the blaze of day, so is the reason in our soul to the things which are by nature most evident of all. 
 For one swallow does not make a summer, nor does one day; and so too one day, or a short time, does not make a man blessed and happy. 
 For though we love both the truth and our friends, piety requires us to honor the truth first. 
 Friendship is a single soul dwelling in two bodies. 
 Friendship is essentially a partnership. 
 Good habits formed at youth make all the difference. 
 Happiness depends upon ourselves. 
 He who can be, and therefore is, another's, and he who participates in reason enough to apprehend, but not to have, is a slave by nature. 
 
He who hath many friends hath none. 
 He who is to be a good ruler must have first been ruled. 
 He who is unable to live in society, or who has no need because he is sufficient for himself, must be either a beast or a god. 
 Hence poetry is something more philosophic and of graver import than history, since its statements are rather of the nature of universals, whereas those of history are singulars. 
 Homer has taught all other poets the art of telling lies skillfully. 
 Hope is a waking dream. 
 Hope is the dream of a waking man. 
 I count him braver who overcomes his desires than him who conquers his enemies; for the hardest victory is over self. 
 I have gained this from philosophy: that I do without being commanded what others do only from fear of the law. 
 If liberty and equality, as is thought by some, are chiefly to be found in democracy, they will be best attained when all persons alike share in government to the utmost. 
 If one way be better than another, that you may be sure is nature's way. 
 In a democracy the poor will have more power than the rich, because there are more of them, and the will of the majority is supreme. 
 In all things of nature there is something of the marvelous. 
 In making a speech one must study three points: first, the means of producing persuasion; second, the language; third the proper arrangement of the various parts of the speech. 
 In nine cases out of ten, a woman had better show more affection than she feels. 
 In poverty and other misfortunes of life, true friends are a sure refuge. The young they keep out of mischief; to the old they are a comfort and aid in their weakness, and those in the prime of life they incite to noble deeds. 
 Inferiors revolt in order that they may be equal, and equals that they may be superior. Such is the state of mind which creates revolutions. 
 It is best to rise from life as from a banquet, neither thirsty nor drunken. 
 It is clearly better that property should be private, but the use of it common; and the special business of the legislator is to create in men this benevolent disposition. 
 It is Homer who has chiefly taught other poets the art of telling lies skillfully. 
It is just that we should be grateful, not only to those with whose views we may agree, but also to those who have expressed more superficial views; for these also contributed something, by developing before us the powers of thought. 
 It is not once nor twice but times without number that the same ideas make their appearance in the world. 
 It is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a thought without accepting it. 
 It is unbecoming for young men to utter maxims. 
 Jealousy is both reasonable and belongs to reasonable men, while envy is base and belongs to the base, for the one makes himself get good things by jealousy, while the other does not allow his neighbour to have them through envy. 
 Love is composed of a single soul inhabiting two bodies. 
 Man is by nature a political animal. 
 Men acquire a particular quality by constantly acting in a particular way. 
 Men are swayed more by fear than by reverence. 
 Men create gods after their own image, not only with regard to their form but with regard to their mode of life. 
 Misfortune shows those who are not really friends. 
 Moral excellence comes about as a result of habit. We become just by doing just acts, temperate by doing temperate acts, brave by doing brave acts. 
 Most people would rather give than get affection. 
 Mothers are fonder than fathers of their children because they are more certain they are their own. 
 My best friend is the man who in wishing me well wishes it for my sake. 
 Nature does nothing in vain. 
 No excellent soul is exempt from a mixture of madness. 
 No great genius has ever existed without some touch of madness. 
 No notice is taken of a little evil, but when it increases it strikes the eye. 
 No one loves the man whom he fears. 
 No one would choose a friendless existence on condition of having all the other things in the world. 
 Of all the varieties of virtues, liberalism is the most beloved. 
 Perfect friendship is the friendship of men who are good, and alike in excellence; for these wish well alike to each other qua good, and they are good in themselves. 
 Personal beauty is a greater recommendation than any letter of reference. 
 Piety requires us to honor truth above our friends. 
 Plato is dear to me, but dearer still is truth. 
 Pleasure in the job puts perfection in the work. 
 Poetry is finer and more philosophical than history; for poetry expresses the universal, and history only the particular. 
 Politicians also have no leisure, because they are always aiming at something beyond political life itself, power and glory, or happiness. 
 Probable impossibilities are to be preferred to improbable possibilities. 
 Quality is not an act, it is a habit. 
 Republics decline into democracies and democracies degenerate into despotisms. 
 Suffering becomes beautiful when anyone bears great calamities with cheerfulness, not through insensibility but through greatness of mind. 
 Temperance is a mean with regard to pleasures. 
 The aim of art is to represent not the outward appearance of things, but their inward significance. 
 The aim of the wise is not to secure pleasure, but to avoid pain. 
 The beginning of reform is not so much to equalize property as to train the noble sort of natures not to desire more, and to prevent the lower from getting more. 
 The best friend is the man who in wishing me well wishes it for my sake. 
 The educated differ from the uneducated as much as the living from the dead. 
 The end of labor is to gain leisure. The energy of the mind is the essence of life. 
 The generality of men are naturally apt to be swayed by fear rather than reverence, and to refrain from evil rather because of the punishment that it brings than because of its own foulness. 
 The gods too are fond of a joke. 
 The greatest virtues are those which are most useful to other persons. 
 The ideal man bears the accidents of life with dignity and grace, making the best of circumstances. 
 The law is reason, free from passion. 
 The least initial deviation from the truth is multiplied later a thousandfold. 
 The moral virtues, then, are produced in us neither by nature nor against nature. Nature, indeed, prepares in us the ground for their reception, but their complete formation is the product of habit. 
 The most perfect political community is one in which the middle class is in control, and outnumbers both of the other classes. 
 The one exclusive sign of thorough knowledge is the power of teaching. 
 The roots of education are bitter, but the fruit is sweet. 
 The secret to humor is surprise. 
 The soul never thinks without a picture. 
 The ultimate value of life depends upon awareness and the power of contemplation rather than upon mere survival. 
 The virtue of justice consists in moderation, as regulated by wisdom. 
 The whole is more than the sum of its parts. 
 The wise man does not expose himself needlessly to danger, since there are few things for which he cares sufficiently; but he is willing, in great crises, to give even his life - knowing that under certain conditions it is not worthwhile to live. 
 The worst form of inequality is to try to make unequal things equal. 
 The young are permanently in a state resembling intoxication. 
 There is no great genius without a mixture of madness. There was never a genius without a tincture of madness. 
 Therefore, the good of man must be the end of the science of politics. 
 Those that know, do. Those that understand, teach. 
 Those who educate children well are more to be honored than they who produce them; for these only gave them life, those the art of living well. 
 Those who excel in virtue have the best right of all to rebel, but then they are of all men the least inclined to do so. 
 Thou wilt find rest from vain fancies if thou doest every act in life as though it were thy last. 
 To run away from trouble is a form of cowardice and, while it is true that the suicide braves death, he does it not for some noble object but to escape some ill. 
 We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit. 
 We become just by performing just action, temperate by performing temperate actions, brave by performing brave action. 
 We make war that we may live in peace. 
 We must no more ask whether the soul and body are one than ask whether the wax and the figure impressed on it are one. 
 We praise a man who feels angry on the right grounds and against the right persons and also in the right manner at the right moment and for the right length of time. 
 Well begun is half done. 
 What is a friend? A single soul dwelling in two bodies. 
 What it lies in our power to do, it lies in our power not to do. 
 What the statesman is most anxious to produce is a certain moral character in his fellow citizens, namely a disposition to virtue and the performance of virtuous actions. 
 Whosoever is delighted in solitude is either a wild beast or a god. 
 Wishing to be friends is quick work, but friendship is a slow ripening fruit. 
 Wit is educated insolence. 
 Without friends no one would choose to live, though he had all other goods. 
You will never do anything in this world without courage. It is the greatest quality of the mind next to honor. 
 Youth is easily deceived because it is quick to hope. 
 
===
--Bram Stoker--
A house cannot be made habitable in a day; and, after all, how few days go to make up a century. 
 And so we remained till the red of the dawn began to fall through the snow gloom. I was desolate and afraid, and full of woe and terror. But when that beautiful sun began to climb the horizon life was to me again. 
 Before I left the castle I so fixed its entrances that never more can the Count enter there Undead. 
 Count Dracula had directed me to go to the Golden Krone Hotel, which I found, to my great delight, to be thoroughly old-fashioned, for of course I wanted to see all I could of the ways of the country. 
 Despair has its own calms. 
 He may not enter anywhere at the first, unless there be some one of the household who bid him to come, though afterwards he can come as he please. 
 How blessed are some people, whose lives have no fears, no dreads; to whom sleep is a blessing that comes nightly, and brings nothing but sweet dreams. 
 I saw the Count lying within the box upon the earth, some of which the rude falling from the cart had scattered over him. He was deathly pale, just like a waxen image, and the red eyes glared with the horrible vindictive look which I knew so well. 
 It is the eve of St. George's Day. Do you not know that tonight, when the clock strikes midnight, all the evil things in the world will have full sway? 
 It was like a miracle, but before our very eyes, and almost in the drawing of a breath, the whole body crumbled into dust and passed from our sight. 
 Let me be accurate in everything, for though you and I have seen some strange things together, you may at the first think that I, Van Helsing, am mad. That the many horrors and the so long strain on nerves has at the last turn my brain. 
 No man knows till he has suffered from the night how sweet and dear to his heart and eye the morning can be. 
 Suddenly, I became conscious of the fact that the driver was in the act of pulling up the horses in the courtyard of a vast ruined castle, from whose tall black windows came no ray of light, and whose broken battlements showed a jagged line against the sky. 
 There are mysteries which men can only guess at, which age by age they may solve only in part. 
 There are such beings as vampires, some of us have evidence that they exist. Even had we not the proof of our own unhappy experience, the teachings and the records of the past give proof enough for sane peoples. 
 Whether it is the old lady's fear, or the many ghostly traditions of this place, or the crucifix itself, I do not know, but I am not feeling nearly as easy in my mind as usual. 
 Within, stood a tall old man, clean shaven save for a long white moustache, and clad in black from head to foot, without a single speck of colour about him anywhere. 
 
===
--Charles Dickens--
A boy's story is the best that is ever told. 
 A day wasted on others is not wasted on one's self. 
 A loving heart is the truest wisdom. 
 A person who can't pay gets another person who can't pay to guarantee that he can pay. Like a person with two wooden legs getting another person with two wooden legs to guarantee that he has got two natural legs. It don't make either of them able to do a walking-match. 
 A wonderful fact to reflect upon, that every human creature is constituted to be that profound secret and mystery to every other. 
 Although a skillful flatterer is a most delightful companion if you have him all to yourself, his taste becomes very doubtful when he takes to complimenting other people. 
 An idea, like a ghost, must be spoken to a little before it will explain itself. 
 Any man may be in good spirits and good temper when he's well dressed. There ain't much credit in that. 
 Anything for the quick life, as the man said when he took the situation at the lighthouse. 
 Bring in the bottled lightning, a clean tumbler, and a corkscrew. 
 Charity begins at home, and justice begins next door. 
 Cows are my passion. What I have ever sighed for has been to retreat to a Swiss farm, and live entirely surrounded by cows - and china. 
 Credit is a system whereby a person who can not pay gets another person who can not pay to guarantee that he can pay. 
 Dignity, and even holiness too, sometimes, are more questions of coat and waistcoat than some people imagine. 
 Do you spell it with a "V" or a "W"?' inquired the judge. 'That depends upon the taste and fancy of the speller, my Lord'. 
 Electric communication will never be a substitute for the face of someone who with their soul encourages another person to be brave and true. 
 Fan the sinking flame of hilarity with the wing of friendship; and pass the rosy wine. 
 Great men are seldom over-scrupulous in the arrangement of their attire. 
 Happy, happy Christmas, that can win us back to the delusions of our childhood days, recall to the old man the pleasures of his youth, and transport the traveler back to his own fireside and quiet home! 
 Have a heart that never hardens, and a temper that never tires, and a touch that never hurts. 
 
He had but one eye and the pocket of prejudice runs in favor of two. 
 He would make a lovely corpse. 
 Home is a name, a word, it is a strong one; stronger than magician ever spoke, or spirit ever answered to, in the strongest conjuration. 
 I have known a vast quantity of nonsense talked about bad men not looking you in the face. Don't trust that conventional idea. Dishonesty will stare honesty out of countenance any day in the week, if there is anything to be got by it. 
 I never could have done what I have done without the habits of punctuality, order, and diligence, without the determination to concentrate myself on one subject at a time. 
 I only ask to be free. The butterflies are free. 
 I will honor Christmas in my heart, and try to keep it all the year. 
 If there were no bad people, there would be no good lawyers. 
 In the little world in which children have their existence, whosoever brings them up, there is nothing so finely perceived and so finely felt, as injustice. 
 It is a far, far better thing that I do, than I have ever done; it is a far, far better rest that I go to, than I have ever known. 
 It is a melancholy truth that even great men have their poor relations. 
 It is a pleasant thing to reflect upon, and furnishes a complete answer to those who contend for the gradual degeneration of the human species, that every baby born into the world is a finer one than the last. 
 It opens the lungs, washes the countenance, exercises the eyes, and softens down the temper; so cry away. 
 It was one of those March days when the sun shines hot and the wind blows cold: when it is summer in the light, and winter in the shade. 
 It was the best of times, it was the worst of times. 
 It's my old girl that advises. She has the head. But I never own to it before her. Discipline must be maintained. 
 Let us be moral. Let us contemplate existence. 
 Life is made of ever so many partings welded together. 
 May not the complaint, that common people are above their station, often take its rise in the fact of uncommon people being below theirs? 
 Most men are individuals no longer so far as their business, its activities, or its moralities are concerned. They are not units but fractions. 
 Nature gives to every time and season some beauties of its own; and from morning to night, as from the cradle to the grave, it is but a succession of changes so gentle and easy that we can scarcely mark their progress. 
 No one is useless in this world who lightens the burden of it to anyone else. 
 Oh the nerves, the nerves; the mysteries of this machine called man! Oh the little that unhinges it, poor creatures that we are! 
 Papa, potatoes, poultry, prunes and prism, are all very good words for the lips. 
 Reflect upon your present blessings of which every man has many - not on your past misfortunes, of which all men have some. 
 Regrets are the natural property of grey hairs. 
 Renunciation remains sorrow, though a sorrow borne willingly. 
 Send forth the child and childish man together, and blush for the pride that libels our own old happy state, and gives its title to an ugly and distorted image. 
 Subdue your appetites, my dears, and you've conquered human nature. 
 That sort of half sigh, which, accompanied by two or three slight nods of the head, is pity's small change in general society. 
 The age of chivalry is past. Bores have succeeded to dragons. 
 The civility which money will purchase, is rarely extended to those who have none. 
 The first rule of business is: Do other men for they would do you. 
 The men who learn endurance, are they who call the whole world, brother. 
 The one great principle of English law is to make business for itself. 
 The pain of parting is nothing to the joy of meeting again. 
 The whole difference between construction and creation is exactly this: that a thing constructed can only be loved after it is constructed; but a thing created is loved before it exists. 
 There are books of which the backs and covers are by far the best parts. 
 There are dark shadows on the earth, but its lights are stronger in the contrast. 
 There are not a few among the disciples of charity who require, in their vocation, scarcely less excitement than the votaries of pleasure in theirs. 
 There are only two styles of portrait painting; the serious and the smirk. 
 There are strings in the human heart that had better not be vibrated. 
 There is a wisdom of the head, and a wisdom of the heart. 
 There is nothing so strong or safe in an emergency of life as the simple truth. 
 This is a world of action, and not for moping and droning in. 
 'Tis love that makes the world go round, my baby. 
 To conceal anything from those to whom I am attached, is not in my nature. I can never close my lips where I have opened my heart. 
 Vices are sometimes only virtues carried to excess! 
 We are so very 'umble. 
 We forge the chains we wear in life. 
 Whatever I have tried to do in life, I have tried with all my heart to do it well; whatever I have devoted myself to, I have devoted myself completely; in great aims and in small I have always thoroughly been in earnest. 
 When a man bleeds inwardly, it is a dangerous thing for himself; but when he laughs inwardly, it bodes no good to other people. 
 You don't carry in your countenance a letter of recommendation. 
===
--Cicero--
A friend is, as it were, a second self. 
 A home without books is a body without soul. 
 A letter does not blush. 
 A man of courage is also full of faith. 
 A man's own manner and character is what most becomes him. 
 A tear dries quickly when it is shed for troubles of others. 
 Ability without honor is useless. 
 According to the law of nature it is only fair that no one should become richer through damages and injuries suffered by another. 
 Advice in old age is foolish; for what can be more absurd than to increase our provisions for the road the nearer we approach to our journey's end. 
 All pain is either severe or slight, if slight, it is easily endured; if severe, it will without doubt be brief. 
 An unjust peace is better than a just war. 
 Any man can make mistakes, but only an idiot persists in his error. 
 Any man is liable to err, only a fool persists in error. 
 As fire when thrown into water is cooled down and put out, so also a false accusation when brought against a man of the purest and holiest character, boils over and is at once dissipated, and vanishes and threats of heaven and sea, himself standing unmoved. 
 As I approve of a youth that has something of the old man in him, so I am no less pleased with an old man that has something of the youth. He that follows this rule may be old in body, but can never be so in mind. 
 Before beginning, plan carefully. 
 Brevity is a great charm of eloquence. 
 Brevity is the best recommendation of speech, whether in a senator or an orator. 
 Cannot people realize how large an income is thrift? 
 Confidence is that feeling by which the mind embarks in great and honorable courses with a sure hope and trust in itself. 
 Cultivation to the mind is as necessary as food to the body. 
 Death is not natural for a state as it is for a human being, for whom death is not only necessary, but frequently even desirable. 
 Empire and liberty. 
 Even if you have nothing to write, write and say so. 
 Every man can tell how many goats or sheep he possesses, but not how many friends. 
 Fear is not a lasting teacher of duty. 
 For a tear is quickly dried, especially when shed for the misfortunes of others. 
 For how many things, which for our own sake we should never do, do we perform for the sake of our friends. 
 Freedom is a man's natural power of doing what he pleases, so far as he is not prevented by force or law. 
 Freedom is a possession of inestimable value. 
 Friendship improves happiness and abates misery, by the doubling of our joy and the dividing of our grief. 
 Frivolity is inborn, conceit acquired by education. 
 Glory follows virtue as if it were its shadow. 
 Gratitude is not only the greatest of virtues, but the parent of all the others. 
 Great is our admiration of the orator who speaks with fluency and discretion. 
 Great is the power of habit. It teaches us to bear fatigue and to despise wounds and pain. 
 Hatred is inveterate anger. 
 Hatred is settled anger. 
 Hatreds not vowed and concealed are to be feared more than those openly declared. 
 He does not seem to me to be a free man who does not sometimes do nothing. 
 He only employs his passion who can make no use of his reason. 
 Honor is the reward of virtue. 
 I add this, that rational ability without education has oftener raised man to glory and virtue, than education without natural ability. 
 I am not ashamed to confess that I am ignorant of what I do not know. 
 I criticize by creation - not by finding fault. 
 I never admire another's fortune so much that I became dissatisfied with my own. 
 I never heard of an old man forgetting where he had buried his money! Old people remember what interests them: the dates fixed for their lawsuits, and the names of their debtors and creditors. 
 I prefer tongue-tied knowledge to ignorant loquacity. 
 If I err in belief that the souls of men are immortal, I gladly err, nor do I wish this error which gives me pleasure to be wrested from me while I live. 
 If we are not ashamed to think it, we should not be ashamed to say it. 
 If you have a garden and a library, you have everything you need. 
 If you have no confidence in self, you are twice defeated in the race of life. With confidence, you have won even before you have started. 
 If you pursue good with labor, the labor passes away but the good remains; if you pursue evil with pleasure, the pleasure passes away and the evil remains. 
 In a disordered mind, as in a disordered body, soundness of health is impossible. 
 In a republic this rule ought to be observed: that the majority should not have the predominant power. 
 In doubtful cases the more liberal interpretation must always be preferred. 
 In everything truth surpasses the imitation and copy. 
 In everything, satiety closely follows the greatest pleasures. 
 In honorable dealing you should consider what you intended, not what you said or thought. 
 In so far as the mind is stronger than the body, so are the ills contracted by the mind more severe than those contracted by the body. 
 In time of war the laws are silent. 
 It is foolish to tear one's hair in grief, as though sorrow would be made less by baldness. 
 It is not by muscle, speed, or physical dexterity that great things are achieved, but by reflection, force of character, and judgment. 
 It is the nature of every person to error, but only the fool perseveres in error. 
 It is the peculiar quality of a fool to perceive the faults of others and to forget his own. 
 It might be pardonable to refuse to defend some men, but to defend them negligently is nothing short of criminal. 
 It shows nobility to be willing to increase your debt to a man to whom you already owe much. 
 Just as the soul fills the body, so God fills the world. Just as the soul bears the body, so God endures the world. Just as the soul sees but is not seen, so God sees but is not seen. Just as the soul feeds the body, so God gives food to the world. 
 Justice consists in doing no injury to men; decency in giving them no offense. 
 Justice is the set and constant purpose which gives every man his due. 
 Knowledge which is divorced from justice, may be called cunning rather than wisdom. 
 Laws are silent in time of war. 
 Laws should be interpreted in a liberal sense so that their intention may be preserved. 
 Let us not listen to those who think we ought to be angry with our enemies, and who believe this to be great and manly. Nothing is so praiseworthy, nothing so clearly shows a great and noble soul, as clemency and readiness to forgive. 
 Liberty consists in the power of doing that which is permitted by the law. 
 Like associates with like. 
 Live as brave men; and if fortune is adverse, front its blows with brave hearts. 
 Love is the attempt to form a friendship inspired by beauty. 
 Memory is the treasury and guardian of all things. 
 More law, less justice. 
 Natural ability without education has more often attained to glory and virtue than education without natural ability. 
 Nature abhors annihilation. 
 Nature has planted in our minds an insatiable longing to see the truth. 
 Never go to excess, but let moderation be your guide. 
 Never injure a friend, even in jest. 
 Next to God we are nothing. To God we are Everything. 
 No obligation to do the impossible is binding. 
 No one can give you better advice than yourself. 
 No one has the right to be sorry for himself for a misfortune that strikes everyone. 
 No one was ever great without some portion of divine inspiration. 
 No poet or orator has ever existed who believed there was any better than himself. 
 No sane man will dance. 
 Nobody can give you wiser advice than yourself. 
 Not cohabitation but consensus constitutes marriage. 
 Nothing is more noble, nothing more venerable than fidelity. Faithfulness and truth are the most sacred excellences and endowments of the human mind. 
 Nothing is more unreliable than the populace, nothing more obscure than human intentions, nothing more deceptive than the whole electoral system. 
 Nothing is so strongly fortified that it cannot be taken by money. 
 Nothing is so unbelievable that oratory cannot make it acceptable. 
 Nothing stands out so conspicuously, or remains so firmly fixed in the memory, as something which you have blundered. 
 O wretched man, wretched not just because of what you are, but also because you do not know how wretched you are! 
Of all nature's gifts to the human race, what is sweeter to a man than his children? 
 Old age: the crown of life, our play's last act. 
 One who sees the Supersoul accompanying the individual soul in all bodies and who understands that neither the soul nor the Supersoul is ever destroyed, actually sees. 
 Orators are most vehement when their cause is weak. 
 Our character is not so much the product of race and heredity as of those circumstances by which nature forms our habits, by which we are nurtured and live. 
 Peace is liberty in tranquillity. 
 People do not understand what a great revenue economy is. 
 Rashness belongs to youth; prudence to old age. 
 Rather leave the crime of the guilty unpunished than condemn the innocent. 
 Rightly defined philosophy is simply the love of wisdom. 
 Silence is one of the great arts of conversation. 
 So near is falsehood to truth that a wise man would do well not to trust himself on the narrow edge. 
 Sweet is the memory of past troubles. 
 Take from a man his reputation for probity, and the more shrewd and clever he is, the more hated and mistrusted he becomes. 
 That last day does not bring extinction to us, but change of place. 
 The authority of those who teach is often an obstacle to those who want to learn. 
 The best interpreter of the law is custom. 
 The countenance is the portrait of the soul, and the eyes mark its intentions. 
 The enemy is within the gates; it is with our own luxury, our own folly, our own criminality that we have to contend. 
 The eyes like sentinel occupy the highest place in the body. 
The false is nothing but an imitation of the true. 
 The function of wisdom is to discriminate between good and evil. 
 The good of the people is the greatest law. 
 The greater the difficulty, the greater the glory. 
 The greatest pleasures are only narrowly separated from disgust. 
 The harvest of old age is the recollection and abundance of blessing previously secured. 
 The higher we are placed, the more humbly we should walk. 
 The life of the dead is placed in the memory of the living. 
 The long time to come when I shall not exist has more effect on me than this short present time, which nevertheless seems endless. 
 The magistrates are the ministers for the laws, the judges their interpreters, the rest of us are servants of the law, that we all may be free. 
 The more laws, the less justice. 
 The nobler a man, the harder it is for him to suspect inferiority in others. 
 The only excuse for war is that we may live in peace unharmed. 
 The precepts of the law are these: to live honestly, to injure no one, and to give everyone else his due. 
 The pursuit, even of the best things, ought to be calm and tranquil. 
 The rule of friendship means there should be mutual sympathy between them, each supplying what the other lacks and trying to benefit the other, always using friendly and sincere words. 
 The safety of the people shall be the highest law. 
 The sinews of war are infinite money. 
 The spirit is the true self. The spirit, the will to win, and the will to excel are the things that endure. 
 The study and knowledge of the universe would somehow be lame and defective were no practical results to follow. 
 
The wise are instructed by reason, average minds by experience, the stupid by necessity and the brute by instinct. 
 There are more men ennobled by study than by nature. 
 There is nothing so absurd that some philosopher has not already said it. 
 This is the truth: as from a fire aflame thousands of sparks come forth, even so from the Creator an infinity of beings have life and to him return again. 
 Those wars are unjust which are undertaken without provocation. For only a war waged for revenge or defense can be just. 
 Thou shouldst eat to live; not live to eat. 
 Though silence is not necessarily an admission, it is not a denial, either. 
 Thrift is of great revenue. 
 Time destroys the speculation of men, but it confirms nature. 
 To be ignorant of what occurred before you were born is to remain always a child. 
 To know the laws is not to memorize their letter but to grasp their full force and meaning. 
 To live is to think. 
 To some extent I liken slavery to death. 
 True glory takes root, and even spreads; all false pretences, like flowers, fall to the ground; nor can any counterfeit last long. 
 True nobility is exempt from fear. 
 Virtue is a habit of the mind, consistent with nature and moderation and reason. 
 We are motivated by a keen desire for praise, and the better a man is the more he is inspired by glory. The very philosophers themselves, even in those books which they write in contempt of glory, inscribe their names. 
 We forget our pleasures, we remember our sufferings. 
 We must conceive of this whole universe as one commonwealth of which both gods and men are members. 
 We should not be so taken up in the search for truth, as to neglect the needful duties of active life; for it is only action that gives a true value and commendation to virtue. 
What an ugly beast the ape, and how like us. 
 What gift has providence bestowed on man that is so dear to him as his children? 
 What is permissible is not always honorable. 
 What is thine is mine, and all mine is thine. 
 What nobler employment, or more valuable to the state, than that of the man who instructs the rising generation? 
 What one has, one ought to use: and whatever he does he should do with all his might. 
 What sweetness is left in life, if you take away friendship? Robbing life of friendship is like robbing the world of the sun. A true friend is more to be esteemed than kinsfolk. 
 What then is freedom? The power to live as one wishes. 
 Whatever you do, do with all your might. 
 When you are aspiring to the highest place, it is honorable to reach the second or even the third rank. 
 When you have no basis for an argument, abuse the plaintiff. 
 While there's life, there's hope. 
 You will be as much value to others as you have been to yourself. 
 
===
--Daniel Defoe--
All men would be tyrants if they could. 
 All our discontents about what we want appeared to spring from the want of thankfulness for what we have. 
 An Englishman will fairly drink as much As will maintain two families of Dutch. 
 As covetousness is the root of all evil, so poverty is the worst of all snares. 
 He that is rich is wise. 
 I have often thought of it as one of the most barbarous customs in the world, considering us as a civilized and a Christian country, that we deny the advantages of learning to women. 
 In trouble to be troubled, Is to have your trouble doubled. 
 It is better to have a lion at the head of an army of sheep, than a sheep at the head of an army of lions. 
 Justice is always violent to the party offending, for every man is innocent in his own eyes. 
 Nature has left this tincture in the blood, That all men would be tyrants if they could. 
 Necessity makes an honest man a knave. 
 Pride the first peer and president of hell. 
 The best of men cannot suspend their fate: The good die early, and the bad die late. 
 The soul is placed in the body like a rough diamond, and must be polished, or the luster of it will never appear. 
 'Tis no sin to cheat the devil. 
 Vice came in always at the door of necessity, not at the door of inclination. 
 
===
--Dante--
A mighty flame followeth a tiny spark. 
 All hope abandon, ye who enter here! 
 Art, as far as it is able, follows nature, as a pupil imitates his master; thus your art must be, as it were, God's grandchild. 
 Be as a tower firmly set; Shakes not its top for any blast that blows. 
 Beauty awakens the soul to act. 
 Consider your origins: you were not made to live as brutes, but to follow virtue and knowledge. 
 Follow your own star! 
 From a little spark may burst a flame. 
 He listens well who takes notes. 
 Heat cannot be separated from fire, or beauty from The Eternal. 
 Heaven wheels above you, displaying to you her eternal glories, and still your eyes are on the ground. 
 I love to doubt as well as know. 
 I wept not, so to stone within I grew. 
 If the present world go astray, the cause is in you, in you it is to be sought. 
 In the middle of the journey of our life I came to myself within a dark wood where the straight way was lost. 
 Nature is the art of God. 
 No one thinks of how much blood it costs. 
 O conscience, upright and stainless, how bitter a sting to thee is a little fault! 
 Pride, envy, avarice - these are the sparks have set on fire the hearts of all men. 
 Remember tonight... for it is the beginning of always. 
 Small projects need much more help than great. 
 The customs and fashions of men change like leaves on the bough, some of which go and others come. 
 The darkest places in hell are reserved for those who maintain their neutrality in times of moral crisis. 
 The more perfect a thing is, the more susceptible to good and bad treatment it is. 
 The sad souls of those who lived without blame and without praise. 
 The secret of getting things done is to act! 
 There is no greater sorrow than to recall happiness in times of misery. 
 Will cannot be quenched against its will. 
 Worldly fame is but a breath of wind that blows now this way, and now that, and changes name as it changes direction. 
 You shall find out how salt is the taste of another man's bread, and how hard is the way up and down another man's stairs. 
 
===
--Edward Gibbon--
A heart to resolve, a head to contrive, and a hand to execute. 
All that is human must retrograde if it does not advance. 
Beauty is an outward gift which is seldom despised, except by those to whom it has been refused. 
Books are those faithful mirrors that reflect to our mind the minds of sages and heroes. 
But the power of instruction is seldom of much efficacy, except in those happy dispositions where it is almost superfluous. 
Conversation enriches the understanding, but solitude is the school of genius. 
Corruption, the most infallible symptom of constitutional liberty. 
Every man who rises above the common level has received two educations: the first from his teachers; the second, more personal and important, from himself. 
Fanaticism obliterates the feelings of humanity. 
History is indeed little more than the register of the crimes, follies, and misfortunes of mankind. 
History is little more than the register of the crimes, follies, and misfortunes of mankind. 
Hope, the best comfort of our imperfect condition. 
I am indeed rich, since my income is superior to my expenses, and my expense is equal to my wishes. 
I never make the mistake of arguing with people for whose opinions I have no respect. 
I understand by this passion the union of desire, friendship, and tenderness, which is inflamed by a single female, which prefers her to the rest of her sex, and which seeks her possession as the supreme or the sole happiness of our being. 
I was never less alone than when by myself. 
It has always been my practice to cast a long paragraph in a single mould, to try it by my ear, to deposit it in my memory, but to suspend the action of the pen till I had given the last polish to my work. 
Let us read with method, and propose to ourselves an end to which our studies may point. The use of reading is to aid us in thinking. 
My early and invincible love of reading I would not exchange for all the riches of India. 
My English text is chaste, and all licentious passages are left in the decent obscurity of a learned language. 
Of the various forms of government which have prevailed in the world, an hereditary monarchy seems to present the fairest scope for ridicule. 
Our sympathy is cold to the relation of distant misery. 
Our work is the presentation of our capabilities. 
Revenge is profitable, gratitude is expensive. 
Style is the image of character. 
The author himself is the best judge of his own performance; none has so deeply meditated on the subject; none is so sincerely interested in the event. 
The courage of a soldier is found to be the cheapest and most common quality of human nature. 
The end comes when we no longer talk with ourselves. It is the end of genuine thinking and the beginning of the final loneliness. 
The laws of probability, so true in general, so fallacious in particular. 
The pathetic almost always consists in the detail of little events. 
The principles of a free constitution are irrecoverably lost, when the legislative power is nominated by the executive. 
The style of an author should be the image of his mind, but the choice and command of language is the fruit of exercise. 
The various modes of worship which prevailed in the Roman world were all considered by the people as equally true; by the philosopher as equally false; and by the magistrate as equally useful. 
The winds and the waves are always on the side of the ablest navigators. 
Their poverty secured their freedom, since our desires and our possessions are the strongest fetters of despotism. 
Unprovided with original learning, unformed in the habits of thinking, unskilled in the arts of composition, I resolved to write a book. 
We improve ourselves by victories over ourselves. There must be contest, and we must win. 
===
--E M Forster--
A poem is true if it hangs together. Information points to something else. A poem points to nothing but itself. 
 America is rather like life. You can usually find in it what you look for. It will probably be interesting, and it is sure to be large. 
 At night, when the curtains are drawn and the fire flickers, my books attain a collective dignity. 
 At the side of the everlasting why, is a yes, and a yes, and a yes. 
 Be soft, even if you stand to get squashed. 
 Beauty ought to look a little surprised: it is the emotion that best suits her face. The beauty who does not look surprised, who accepts her position as her due - she reminds us too much of a prima donna. 
 Beethoven's Fifth Symphony is the most sublime noise that has ever penetrated into the ear of man. 
 But nothing in India is identifiable, the mere asking of a question causes it to disappear or to merge in something else. 
 Charm, in most men and nearly all women, is a decoration. 
 Creative writers are always greater than the causes that they represent. 
 Death destroys a man, but the idea of death saves him. 
 Either life entails courage, or it ceases to be life. 
 England has always been disinclined to accept human nature. 
 Faith, to my mind, is a stiffening process, a sort of mental starch. 
 For our vanity is such that we hold our own characters immutable, and we are slow to acknowledge that they have changed, even for the better. 
 History develops, art stands still. 
 How can I know what I think till I see what I say? 
 I am certainly an ought and not a must. 
 I am so used to seeing the sort of play which deals with one man and two women. They do not leave me with the feeling I have made a full theatrical meal they do not give me the experience of the multiplicity of life. 
 I am sure that if the mothers of various nations could meet, there would be no more wars. 
 I distrust Great Men. They produce a desert of uniformity around them and often a pool of blood too, and I always feel a little man's pleasure when they come a cropper. 
 I hate the idea of causes, and if I had to choose between betraying my country and betraying my friend, I hope I should have the guts to betray my country. 
 I have no mystic faith in the people. I have in the individual. 
 I have only got down on to paper, really, three types of people: the person I think I am, the people who irritate me, and the people I'd like to be. 
 I never could get on with representative individuals but people who existed on their own account and with whom it might therefore be possible to be friends. 
 I'm a holy man minus the holiness. 
 Ideas are fatal to caste. 
 If I had to choose between betraying my country and betraying my friend, I hope I should have the guts to betray my country. 
 If there is on earth a house with many mansions, it is the house of words. 
 It is my fate and perhaps my temperament to sign agreements with fools. 
 It is the vice of a vulgar mind to be thrilled by bigness. 
 Letters have to pass two tests before they can be classed as good: they must express the personality both of the writer and of the recipient. 
 Life is easy to chronicle, but bewildering to practice. 
 Liking one person is an extra reason for liking another. 
 Logic! Good gracious! What rubbish! 
 Love and understand the Italians, for the people are more marvellous than the land. 
 Love is always being given where it is not required. 
 Most quarrels are inevitable at the time; incredible afterwards. 
 No man can be an agnostic who has a sense of humour. 
 No one is India. 
Nonsense and beauty have close connections. 
 One always tends to overpraise a long book, because one has got through it. 
 One is certain of nothing but the truth of one's own emotions. 
 One marvels why the middle classes still insist on so much discomfort for their children at such expense to themselves. 
 One must be fond of people and trust them if one is not to make a mess of life. 
 One of the evils of money is that it tempts us to look at it rather than at the things that it buys. 
 Only a struggle twists sentimentality and lust together into love. 
 Only a writer who has the sense of evil can make goodness readable. 
 Only people who have been allowed to practise freedom can have the grown-up look in their eyes. 
 Oxford is Oxford: not a mere receptacle for youth, like Cambridge. Perhaps it wants its inmates to love it rather than to love one another. 
 Paganism is infectious, more infectious than diphtheria or piety. 
 People have their own deaths as well as their own lives, and even if there is nothing beyond death, we shall differ in our nothingness. 
 Railway termini are our gates to the glorious and the unknown. Through them we pass out into adventure and sunshine, to them, alas! we return. 
 Reverence is fatal to literature. 
 So, two cheers for Democracy: one because it admits variety and two because it permits criticism. 
 Spoon feeding in the long run teaches us nothing but the shape of the spoon. 
 Surely the only sound foundation for a civilization is a sound state of mind. 
 The English countryside, its growth and its destruction, is a genuine and tragic theme. 
 The fact is we can only love what we know personally. And we cannot know much. In public affairs, in the rebuilding of civilization, something less dramatic and emotional is needed, namely tolerance. 
 The final test for a novel will be our affection for it, as it is the test of our friends, and of anything else which we cannot define. 
 The four characteristics of humanism are curiosity, a free mind, belief in good taste, and belief in the human race. 
 The historian must have some conception of how men who are not historians behave. Otherwise he will move in a world of the dead. He can only gain that conception through personal experience, and he can only use his personal experiences when he is a genius. 
 The king died and then the queen died is a story. The king died, and then queen died of grief is a plot. 
 The main facts in human life are five: birth, food, sleep, love and death. 
 The more highly public life is organized the lower does its morality sink. 
 The only books that influence us are those for which we are ready, and which have gone a little farther down our particular path than we have yet got ourselves. 
 The people I respect most behave as if they were immortal and as if society was eternal. 
 The sadness of the incomplete, the sadness that is often Life, but should never be Art. 
 The sort of poetry I seek resides in objects man can't touch. 
 The woman who can't influence her husband to vote the way she wants ought to be ashamed of herself. 
 The work of art assumes the existence of the perfect spectator, and is indifferent to the fact that no such person exists. 
 There is much good luck in the world, but it is luck. We are none of us safe. We are children, playing or quarrelling on the line. 
 There is something majestic in the bad taste of Italy. 
 There lies at the back of every creed something terrible and hard for which the worshipper may one day be required to suffer. 
 Think before you speak is criticism's motto; speak before you think, creation's. 
 Those who prepared for all the emergencies of life beforehand may equip themselves at the expense of joy. 
 To make us feel small in the right way is a function of art; men can only make us feel small in the wrong way. 
 Tolerance is a very dull virtue. It is boring. Unlike love, it has always had a bad press. It is negative. It merely means putting up with people, being able to stand things. 
 Two cheers for Democracy; one because it admits variety, and two because it permits criticism. 
 Unless we remember we cannot understand. Very notable was his distinction between coarseness and vulgarity, coarseness, revealing something; vulgarity, concealing something. 
 We are all like Scheherazade's husband, in that we want to know what happens next. 
 We are not concerned with the very poor. They are unthinkable, and only to be approached by the statistician or the poet. 
 We are willing enough to praise freedom when she is safely tucked away in the past and cannot be a nuisance. In the present, amidst dangers whose outcome we cannot foresee, we get nervous about her, and admit censorship. 
 We cast a shadow on something wherever we stand. 
 We must be willing to let go of the life we have planned, so as to have the life that is waiting for us. 
 What is the good of your stars and trees, your sunrise and the wind, if they do not enter into our daily lives? 
 What is wonderful about great literature is that it transforms the man who reads it towards the condition of the man who wrote. 
 Works of art, in my opinion, are the only objects in the material universe to possess internal order, and that is why, though I don't believe that only art matters, I do believe in Art for Art's sake. 
 
===
--F Scott Fitzgerald--
A big man has no time really to do anything but just sit and be big. 
 A great social success is a pretty girl who plays her cards as carefully as if she were plain. 
 Action is character. 
 Advertising is a racket, like the movies and the brokerage business. You cannot be honest without admitting that its constructive contribution to humanity is exactly minus zero. 
 After all, life hasn't much to offer except youth, and I suppose for older people, the love of youth in others. 
 All good writing is swimming under water and holding your breath. 
 An author ought to write for the youth of his own generation, the critics of the next, and the schoolmaster of ever afterwards. 
 At eighteen our convictions are hills from which we look; at forty-five they are caves in which we hide. 
 Cut out all these exclamation points. An exclamation point is like laughing at your own joke. 
 Either you think, or else others have to think for you and take power from you, pervert and discipline your natural tastes, civilize and sterilize you. 
 Every one suspects himself of at least one of the cardinal virtues. 
 Everybody's youth is a dream, a form of chemical madness. 
 Family quarrels are bitter things. They don't go according to any rules. They're not like aches or wounds, they're more like splits in the skin that won't heal because there's not enough material. 
 First you take a drink, then the drink takes a drink, then the drink takes you. 
 For awhile after you quit Keats all other poetry seems to be only whistling or humming. 
 Forgotten is forgiven. 
 Genius goes around the world in its youth incessantly apologizing for having large feet. What wonder that later in life it should be inclined to raise those feet too swiftly to fools and bores. 
 Genius is the ability to put into effect what is on your mind. 
 Great art is the contempt of a great man for small art. 
 Her body calculated to a millimeter to suggest a bud yet guarantee a flower. 
His was a great sin who first invented consciousness. Let us lose it for a few hours. 
 I like people and I like them to like me, but I wear my heart where God put it, on the inside. 
 I'm a romantic; a sentimental person thinks things will last, a romantic person hopes against hope that they won't. 
 I've been drunk for about a week now, and I thought it might sober me up to sit in a library. 
 In a real dark night of the soul, it is always three o'clock in the morning, day after day. 
 It is in the thirties that we want friends. In the forties we know they won't save us any more than love did. 
 It is sadder to find the past again and find it inadequate to the present than it is to have it elude you and remain forever a harmonious conception of memory. 
 It occurred to me that there was no difference between men, in intelligence or race, so profound as the difference between the sick and the well. 
 It's not a slam at you when people are rude, it's a slam at the people they've met before. 
 Life is essentially a cheat and its conditions are those of defeat; the redeeming things are not happiness and pleasure but the deeper satisfactions that come out of struggle. 
 Men get to be a mixture of the charming mannerisms of the women they have known. 
 My idea is always to reach my generation. The wise writer writes for the youth of his own generation, the critics of the next, and the schoolmasters of ever afterward. 
 Never confuse a single defeat with a final defeat. 
 No decent career was ever founded on a public. 
 No grand idea was ever born in a conference, but a lot of foolish ideas have died there. 
 No such thing as a man willing to be honest - that would be like a blind man willing to see. 
 Nothing is as obnoxious as other people's luck. 
 Often people display a curious respect for a man drunk, rather like the respect of simple races for the insane... There is something awe-inspiring in one who has lost all inhibitions. 
 Only remember west of the Mississippi it's a little more look, see, act. A little less rationalize, comment, talk. 
 Personality is an unbroken series of successful gestures. 
Riches have never fascinated me, unless combined with the greatest charm or distinction. 
 Scratch a Yale man with both hands and you'll be lucky to find a coast-guard. Usually you find nothing at all. 
 Show me a hero and I'll write you a tragedy. 
 Some men have a necessity to be mean, as if they were exercising a faculty which they had to partially neglect since early childhood. 
 Speech is an arrangement of notes that will never be played again. 
 Switzerland is a country where very few things begin, but many things end. 
 The compensation of a very early success is a conviction that life is a romantic matter. In the best sense one stays young. 
 The easiest way to get a reputation is to go outside the fold, shout around for a few years as a violent atheist or a dangerous radical, and then crawl back to the shelter. 
 The faces of most American women over thirty are relief maps of petulant and bewildered unhappiness. 
 The idea that to make a man work you've got to hold gold in front of his eyes is a growth, not an axiom. We've done that for so long that we've forgotten there's any other way. 
 The test of a first-rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in mind at the same time and still retain the ability to function. 
 The victor belongs to the spoils. 
 The world, as a rule, does not live on beaches and in country clubs. 
 There are no second acts in American lives. 
 Though the Jazz Age continued it became less and less an affair of youth. The sequel was like a children's party taken over by the elders. 
 To a profound pessimist about life, being in danger is not depressing. 
 To write it, it took three months; to conceive it three minutes; to collect the data in it all my life. 
 Trouble has no necessary connection with discouragement. Discouragement has a germ of its own, as different from trouble as arthritis is different from a stiff joint. 
 Vitality shows in not only the ability to persist but the ability to start over. 
 What'll we do with ourselves this afternoon? And the day after that, and the next thirty years? 
When people are taken out of their depths they lose their heads, no matter how charming a bluff they may put up. 
 You can stroke people with words. 
 You don't write because you want to say something, you write because you have something to say. 
===
--Henry David Thoreau--
A broad margin of leisure is as beautiful in a man's life as in a book. Haste makes waste, no less in life than in housekeeping. Keep the time, observe the hours of the universe, not of the cars. 
 A man is rich in proportion to the number of things he can afford to let alone. 
 A man's interest in a single bluebird is worth more than a complete but dry list of the fauna and flora of a town. 
 A truly good book teaches me better than to read it. I must soon lay it down, and commence living on its hint. What I began by reading, I must finish by acting. 
 After the first blush of sin comes its indifference. 
 Aim above morality. Be not simply good, be good for something. 
 Alas! how little does the memory of these human inhabitants enhance the beauty of the landscape! 
 All endeavor calls for the ability to tramp the last mile, shape the last plan, endure the last hours toil. The fight to the finish spirit is the one... characteristic we must posses if we are to face the future as finishers. 
 All men are children, and of one family. The same tale sends them all to bed, and wakes them in the morning. 
 All this worldly wisdom was once the unamiable heresy of some wise man. 
 An early-morning walk is a blessing for the whole day. 
 An unclean person is universally a slothful one. 
 Any fool can make a rule, and any fool will mind it. 
 As a single footstep will not make a path on the earth, so a single thought will not make a pathway in the mind. To make a deep physical path, we walk again and again. To make a deep mental path, we must think over and over the kind of thoughts we wish to dominate our lives. 
 As for doing good; that is one of the professions which is full. Moreover I have tried it fairly and, strange as it may seem, am satisfied that it does not agree with my constitution. 
 As if you could kill time without injuring eternity. 
 As in geology, so in social institutions, we may discover the causes of all past changes in the present invariable order of society. 
 As you simplify your life, the laws of the universe will be simpler; solitude will not be solitude, poverty will not be poverty, nor weakness weakness. 
 Be not simply good - be good for something. 
 Be true to your work, your word, and your friend. 
Before printing was discovered, a century was equal to a thousand years. 
 Being is the great explainer. 
 Beware of all enterprises that require a new set of clothes. 
 Books are the treasured wealth of the world and the fit inheritance of generations and nations. 
 Books are to be distinguished by the grandeur of their topics even more than by the manner in which they are treated. 
 Books can only reveal us to ourselves, and as often as they do us this service we lay them aside. 
 Could a greater miracle take place than for us to look through each other's eyes for an instant? 
 Disobedience is the true foundation of liberty. The obedient must be slaves. 
 Distrust any enterprise that requires new clothes. 
 Do not be too moral. You may cheat yourself out of much life so. Aim above morality. Be not simply good; be good for something. 
 Do not hire a man who does your work for money, but him who does it for love of it. 
 Do not trouble yourself much to get new things, whether clothes or friends... Sell your clothes and keep your thoughts. 
 Do not worry if you have built your castles in the air. They are where they should be. Now put the foundations under them. 
 Do what nobody else can do for you. Omit to do anything else. 
 Do what you love. Know your own bone; gnaw at it, bury it, unearth it, and gnaw it still. 
 Dreams are the touchstones of our character. 
 Every creature is better alive than dead, men and moose and pine trees, and he who understands it aright will rather preserve its life than destroy it. 
 Every generation laughs at the old fashions, but follows religiously the new. 
 Every man casts a shadow; not his body only, but his imperfectly mingled spirit. This is his grief. Let him turn which way he will, it falls opposite to the sun; short at noon, long at eve. Did you never see it? 
 Every people have gods to suit their circumstances. 
Faith keeps many doubts in her pay. If I could not doubt, I should not believe. 
 Faith never makes a confession. 
 Friends... they cherish one another's hopes. They are kind to one another's dreams. 
 Front yards are not made to walk in, but, at most, through, and you could go in the back way. 
 Generally speaking, a howling wilderness does not howl: it is the imagination of the traveler that does the howling. 
 Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you have imagined. 
 God reigns when we take a liberal view, when a liberal view is presented to us. 
 Goodness is the only investment that never fails. 
 Great men, unknown to their generation, have their fame among the great who have preceded them, and all true worldly fame subsides from their high estimate beyond the stars. 
 Heaven is under our feet as well as over our heads. 
 How can any man be weak who dares to be at all? 
 How could youths better learn to live than by at once trying the experiment of living? 
 How does it become a man to behave towards the American government today? I answer, that he cannot without disgrace be associated with it. 
 How many things there are concerning which we might well deliberate whether we had better know them. 
 How vain it is to sit down to write when you have not stood up to live. 
 I am sorry to think that you do not get a man's most effective criticism until you provoke him. Severe truth is expressed with some bitterness. 
 I did not wish to take a cabin passage, but rather to go before the mast and on the deck of the world, for there I could best see the moonlight amid the mountains. I do not wish to go below now. 
 I had three chairs in my house; one for solitude, two for friendship, three for society. 
 I have a great deal of company in the house, especially in the morning when nobody calls. 
 I have always been regretting that I was not as wise as the day I was born. 
I have been as sincere a worshipper of Aurora as the Greeks. 
 I have found that hollow, which even I had relied on for solid. 
 I have learned, that if one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours. 
 I have never found a companion that was so companionable as solitude. We are for the most part more lonely when we go abroad among men than when we stay in our chambers. A man thinking or working is always alone, let him be where he will. 
 I have seen how the foundations of the world are laid, and I have not the least doubt that it will stand a good while. 
 I have thought there was some advantage even in death, by which we mingle with the herd of common men. 
 I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by conscious endeavor. 
 I love to be alone. I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude. 
 I never found a companion that was so companionable as solitude. 
 I put a piece of paper under my pillow, and when I could not sleep I wrote in the dark. 
 I say beware of all enterprises that require new clothes, and not rather a new wearer of clothes. 
 I think that there is nothing, not even crime, more opposed to poetry, to philosophy, ay, to life itself than this incessant business. 
 I was more independent than any farmer in Concord, for I was not anchored to a house or farm, but could follow the bent of my genius, which is a very crooked one, every moment. 
 I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived. 
 I would rather sit on a pumpkin and have it all to myself, than be crowded on a velvet cushion. 
 If a man constantly aspires is he not elevated? 
 If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away. 
 If a man walks in the woods for love of them half of each day, he is in danger of being regarded as a loafer. But if he spends his days as a speculator, shearing off those woods and making the earth bald before her time, he is deemed an industrious and enterprising citizen. 
 If I knew for a certainty that a man was coming to my house with the conscious design of doing me good, I should run for my life. 
 If I seem to boast more than is becoming, my excuse is that I brag for humanity rather than for myself. 
If it is surely the means to the highest end we know, can any work be humble or disgusting? Will it not rather be elevating as a ladder, the means by which we are translated? 
 If misery loves company, misery has company enough. 
 If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life which he has imagined, he will meet with success unexpected in common hours. 
 If the machine of government is of such a nature that it requires you to be the agent of injustice to another, then, I say, break the law. 
 If we will be quiet and ready enough, we shall find compensation in every disappointment. 
 If you can speak what you will never hear, if you can write what you will never read, you have done rare things. 
 If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them. 
 If you would convince a man that he does wrong, do right. Men will believe what they see. 
 Ignorance and bungling with love are better than wisdom and skill without. 
 In human intercourse the tragedy begins, not when there is misunderstanding about words, but when silence is not understood. 
 In my afternoon walk I would fain forget all my morning occupations and my obligations to society. 
 In the long run, men hit only what they aim at. Therefore, they had better aim at something high. 
 In the meanest are all the materials of manhood, only they are not rightly disposed. 
 In wilderness is the preservation of the world. 
 Instead of noblemen, let us have noble villages of men. 
 Is the babe young? When I behold it, it seems more venerable than the oldest man. 
 It appears to be a law that you cannot have a deep sympathy with both man and nature. 
 It is a characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate things. 
 It is an interesting question how far men would retain their relative rank if they were divested of their clothes. 
 It is best to avoid the beginnings of evil. 
It is better to have your head in the clouds, and know where you are... than to breathe the clearer atmosphere below them, and think that you are in paradise. 
 It is never too late to give up our prejudices. 
 It is not desirable to cultivate a respect for the law, so much as for the right. 
 It is not enough to be busy. So are the ants. The question is: What are we busy about? 
 It is not part of a true culture to tame tigers, any more than it is to make sheep ferocious. 
 It is only when we forget all our learning that we begin to know. 
 It is remarkable how closely the history of the apple tree is connected with that of man. 
 It is the greatest of all advantages to enjoy no advantage at all. 
 It is too late to be studying Hebrew; it is more important to understand even the slang of today. 
 It is usually the imagination that is wounded first, rather than the heart; it being much more sensitive. 
 It is what a man thinks of himself that really determines his fate. 
 It takes two to speak the truth: one to speak, and another to hear. 
 It's not what you look at that matters, it's what you see. 
 Justice is sweet and musical; but injustice is harsh and discordant. 
 Live the life you've dreamed. 
 Live your beliefs and you can turn the world around. 
 Live your life, do your work, then take your hat. 
 Make the most of your regrets; never smother your sorrow, but tend and cherish it till it comes to have a separate and integral interest. To regret deeply is to live afresh. 
 Many men go fishing all of their lives without knowing that it is not fish they are after. 
 May we so love as never to have occasion to repent of our love! 
Men are born to succeed, not to fail. 
 Men have a respect for scholarship and learning greatly out of proportion to the use they commonly serve. 
 Men have become the tools of their tools. 
 Money is not required to buy one necessity of the soul. 
 Most men lead lives of quiet desperation and go to the grave with the song still in them. 
 Most of the luxuries and many of the so-called comforts of life are not only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the elevation of mankind. 
 Nature and human life are as various as our several constitutions. Who shall say what prospect life offers to another? 
 Nature is full of genius, full of the divinity; so that not a snowflake escapes its fashioning hand. 
 Nature puts no question and answers none which we mortals ask. She has long ago taken her resolution. 
 Nature will bear the closest inspection. She invites us to lay our eye level with her smallest leaf, and take an insect view of its plain. 
 Nay, be a Columbus to whole new continents and worlds within you, opening new channels, not of trade, but of thought. 
 Never look back unless you are planning to go that way. 
 Night is certainly more novel and less profane than day. 
 No face which we can give to a matter will stead us so well at last as the truth. This alone wears well. 
 None are so old as those who have outlived enthusiasm. 
 Not only must we be good, but we must also be good for something. 
 Not until we are lost do we begin to understand ourselves. 
 Nothing goes by luck in composition. It allows of no tricks. The best you can write will be the best you are. 
 Nothing makes the earth seem so spacious as to have friends at a distance; they make the latitudes and longitudes. 
 Old deeds for old people, and new deeds for new. 
Only he is successful in his business who makes that pursuit which affords him the highest pleasure sustain him. 
 Only that day dawns to which we are awake. 
 Our houses are such unwieldy property that we are often imprisoned rather than housed by them. 
 Our inventions are wont to be pretty toys, which distract our attention from serious things. They are but improved means to an unimproved end. 
 Our life is frittered away by detail... simplify, simplify. 
 Our moments of inspiration are not lost though we have no particular poem to show for them; for those experiences have left an indelible impression, and we are ever and anon reminded of them. 
 Our truest life is when we are in dreams awake. 
 Pursue some path, however narrow and crooked, in which you can walk with love and reverence. 
 Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth. 
 Read the best books first, or you may not have a chance to read them at all. 
 Shall I not have intelligence with the earth? Am I not partly leaves and vegetable mould myself. 
 Simplify, simplify. 
 Some are reputed sick and some are not. It often happens that the sicker man is the nurse to the sounder. 
 Success usually comes to those who are too busy to be looking for it. 
 Thank God men cannot fly, and lay waste the sky as well as the earth. 
 That government is best which governs least. 
 That man is rich whose pleasures are the cheapest. 
 Thaw with her gentle persuasion is more powerful than Thor with his hammer. The one melts, the other breaks into pieces. 
 The Artist is he who detects and applies the law from observation of the works of Genius, whether of man or Nature. The Artisan is he who merely applies the rules which others have detected. 
 The bluebird carries the sky on his back. 
The cost of a thing is the amount of what I will call life which is required to be exchanged for it, immediately or in the long run. 
 The fibers of all things have their tension and are strained like the strings of an instrument. 
 The finest workers in stone are not copper or steel tools, but the gentle touches of air and water working at their leisure with a liberal allowance of time. 
 The greatest compliment that was ever paid me was when one asked me what I thought, and attended to my answer. 
 The heart is forever inexperienced. 
 The language of excitement is at best picturesque merely. You must be calm before you can utter oracles. 
 The language of friendship is not words but meanings. 
 The law will never make a man free; it is men who have got to make the law free. 
 The lawyer's truth is not Truth, but consistency or a consistent expediency. 
 The light which puts out our eyes is darkness to us. Only that day dawns to which we are awake. There is more day to dawn. The sun is but a morning star. 
 The man who goes alone can start today; but he who travels with another must wait till that other is ready. 
 The man who is dissatisfied with himself, what can he do? 
 The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. 
 The most I can do for my friend is simply be his friend. 
 The perception of beauty is a moral test. 
 The price of anything is the amount of life you exchange for it. 
 The rarest quality in an epitaph is truth. 
 The savage in man is never quite eradicated. 
 The smallest seed of faith is better than the largest fruit of happiness. 
 The squirrel that you kill in jest, dies in earnest. 
The universe is wider than our views of it. 
 The youth gets together his materials to build a bridge to the moon, or, perchance, a palace or temple on the earth, and, at length, the middle-aged man concludes to build a woodshed with them. 
 There are a thousand hacking at the branches of evil to one who is striking at the root. 
 There are certain pursuits which, if not wholly poetic and true, do at least suggest a nobler and finer relation to nature than we know. The keeping of bees, for instance. 
 There are moments when all anxiety and stated toil are becalmed in the infinite leisure and repose of nature. 
 There are old heads in the world who cannot help me by their example or advice to live worthily and satisfactorily to myself; but I believe that it is in my power to elevate myself this very hour above the common level of my life. 
 There is always a present and extant life, be it better or worse, which all combine to uphold. 
 There is but one stage for the peasant and the actor. 
 There is danger that we lose sight of what our friend is absolutely, while considering what she is to us alone. 
 There is more of good nature than of good sense at the bottom of most marriages. 
 There is no just and serene criticism as yet. 
 There is no more fatal blunderer than he who consumes the greater part of his life getting his living. 
 There is no odor so bad as that which arises from goodness tainted. 
 There is no remedy for love but to love more. 
 There is no rule more invariable than that we are paid for our suspicions by finding what we suspect. 
 There is no value in life except what you choose to place upon it and no happiness in any place except what you bring to it yourself. 
 There is one consolation in being sick; and that is the possibility that you may recover to a better state than you were ever in before. 
 There never was and is not likely soon to be a nation of philosophers, nor am I certain it is desirable that there should be. 
 They can do without architecture who have no olives nor wines in the cellar. 
 Things do not change; we change. 
This world is but a canvas to our imagination. 
 Those whom we can love, we can hate; to others we are indifferent. 
 Through our own recovered innocence we discern the innocence of our neighbors. 
 Time is but the stream I go a-fishing in. 
 'Tis healthy to be sick sometimes. 
 To a philosopher all news, as it is called, is gossip, and they who edit and read it are old women over their tea. 
 To affect the quality of the day, that is the highest of arts. 
 To be admitted to Nature's hearth costs nothing. None is excluded, but excludes himself. You have only to push aside the curtain. 
 To have done anything just for money is to have been truly idle. 
 True friendship can afford true knowledge. It does not depend on darkness and ignorance. 
 Truth is always in harmony with herself, and is not concerned chiefly to reveal the justice that may consist with wrong-doing. 
 Truths and roses have thorns about them. 
 Under a government which imprisons any unjustly, the true place for a just man is also a prison. 
 We are always paid for our suspicion by finding what we suspect. 
 We are not what we are, nor do we treat or esteem each other for such, but for what we are capable of being. 
 We know but a few men, a great many coats and breeches. 
 We must learn to reawaken and keep ourselves awake, not by mechanical aid, but by an infinite expectation of the dawn. 
 We must walk consciously only part way toward our goal, and then leap in the dark to our success. 
 We shall see but a little way if we require to understand what we see. 
 We should distrust any enterprise that requires new clothes. 
Wealth is the ability to fully experience life. 
 What is called genius is the abundance of life and health. 
 What is human warfare but just this; an effort to make the laws of God and nature take sides with one party. 
 What is once well done is done forever. 
 What is the use of a house if you haven't got a tolerable planet to put it on? 
 What lies behind us and what lies ahead of us are tiny matters compared to what lives within us. 
 What old people say you cannot do, you try and find that you can. Old deeds for old people, and new deeds for new. 
 What you get by achieving your goals is to as important as what you become by achieving your goals. 
 When I hear music, I fear no danger. I am invulnerable. I see no foe. I am related to the earliest times, and to the latest. 
 Where there is an observatory and a telescope, we expect that any eyes will see new worlds at once. 
 While civilization has been improving our houses, it has not equally improved the men who are to inhabit them. It has created palaces, but it was not so easy to create noblemen and kings. 
 Why should we be in such desperate haste to succeed, and in such desperate enterprises? If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. 
 You must live in the present, launch yourself on every wave, find your eternity in each moment. 
 
===
--H G Wells--
A time will come when a politician who has willfully made war and promoted international dissension will be as sure of the dock and much surer of the noose than a private homicide. It is not reasonable that those who gamble with men's lives should not stake their own. 
 Adapt or perish, now as ever, is nature's inexorable imperative. 
 Advertising is legalized lying. 
 Affliction comes to us, not to make us sad but sober; not to make us sorry but wise. 
 After people have repeated a phrase a great number of times, they begin to realize it has meaning and may even be true. 
 Beauty is in the heart of the beholder. 
 Biologically the species is the accumulation of the experiments of all its successful individuals since the beginning. 
 Crime and bad lives are the measure of a State's failure, all crime in the end is the crime of the community. 
 Cynicism is humor in ill health. 
 Every time I see an adult on a bicycle, I no longer despair for the future of the human race. 
 Heresies are experiments in man's unsatisfied search for truth. 
 History is a race between education and catastrophe. 
 Human history becomes more and more a race between education and catastrophe. 
 Human history in essence is the history of ideas. 
 I had rather be called a journalist than an artist. 
 I must confess that my imagination refuses to see any sort of submarine doing anything but suffocating its crew and floundering at sea. 
 I want to go ahead of Father Time with a scythe of my own. 
 If we don't end war, war will end us. 
 If you fell down yesterday, stand up today. 
 In England we have come to rely upon a comfortable time-lag of fifty years or a century intervening between the perception that something ought to be done and a serious attempt to do it. 
In politics, strangely enough, the best way to play your cards is to lay them face upwards on the table. 
 It is not reasonable that those who gamble with men's lives should not pay with their own. 
 Leaders should lead as far as they can and then vanish. Their ashes should not choke the fire they have lit. 
 Man is the unnatural animal, the rebel child of nature, and more and more does he turn himself against the harsh and fitful hand that reared him. 
 Moral indignation is jealousy with a halo. 
 No passion in the world is equal to the passion to alter someone else's draft. 
 Nothing leads so straight to futility as literary ambitions without systematic knowledge. 
 Once the command of the air is obtained by one of the contending armies, the war becomes a conflict between a seeing host and one that is blind. 
 One of the darkest evils of our world is surely the unteachable wildness of the Good. 
 Our true nationality is mankind. 
 Sailors ought never to go to church. They ought to go to hell, where it is much more comfortable. 
 Some people bear three kinds of trouble - the ones they've had, the ones they have, and the ones they expect to have. 
 The crisis of today is the joke of tomorrow. 
 The doctrine of the Kingdom of Heaven, which was the main teaching of Jesus, is certainly one of the most revolutionary doctrines that ever stirred and changed human thought. 
 The New Deal is plainly an attempt to achieve a working socialism and avert a social collapse in America; it is extraordinarily parallel to the successive 'policies' and 'Plans' of the Russian experiment. Americans shirk the word 'socialism', but what else can one call it? 
 The only true measure of success is the ratio between what we might have done and what we might have been on the one hand, and the thing we have made and the things we have made of ourselves on the other. 
 The past is but the past of a beginning. 
 The past is the beginning of the beginning and all that is and has been is but the twilight of the dawn. 
 The path of least resistance is the path of the loser. 
 The path of social advancement is, and must be, strewn with broken friendships. 
 The uglier a man's legs are, the better he plays golf - it's almost a law. 
 There is nothing in machinery, there is nothing in embankments and railways and iron bridges and engineering devices to oblige them to be ugly. Ugliness is the measure of imperfection. 
 There's nothing wrong in suffering, if you suffer for a purpose. Our revolution didn't abolish danger or death. It simply made danger and death worthwhile. 
 We are living in 1937, and our universities, I suggest, are not half-way out of the fifteenth century. We have made hardly any changes in our conception of university organization, education, graduation, for a century - for several centuries. 
 What really matters is what you do with what you have. 
 While there is a chance of the world getting through its troubles, I hold that a reasonable man has to behave as though he were sure of it. If at the end your cheerfulness in not justified, at any rate you will have been cheerful. 
 You have learned something. That always feels at first as if you had lost something.
===
--Homer--
A decent boldness ever meets with friends. 
 A sympathetic friend can be quite as dear as a brother. 
 And what he greatly thought, he nobly dared. 
 Be still my heart; thou hast known worse than this. 
 But curb thou the high spirit in thy breast, for gentle ways are best, and keep aloof from sharp contentions. 
 Even were sleep is concerned, too much is a bad thing. 
 For rarely are sons similar to their fathers: most are worse, and a few are better than their fathers. 
 Hateful to me as are the gates of hell, Is he who, hiding one thing in his heart, Utters another. 
 Hateful to me as the gates of Hades is that man who hides one thing in his heart and speaks another. 
 How vain, without the merit, is the name. 
 Hunger is insolent, and will be fed. 
 In youth and beauty, wisdom is but rare! 
 It is not good to have a rule of many. 
 Light is the task where many share the toil. 
 Nothing shall I, while sane, compare with a friend. 
 The charity that is a trifle to us can be precious to others. 
 The difficulty is not so great to die for a friend, as to find a friend worth dying for. 
 There is a time for many words, and there is also a time for sleep. 
 There is nothing nobler or more admirable than when two people who see eye to eye keep house as man and wife, confounding their enemies and delighting their friends. 
 To have a great man for an intimate friend seems pleasant to those who have never tried it; those who have, fear it. 
 True friends appear less moved than counterfeit. 
 Two friends, two bodies with one soul inspired. 
 Two urns on Jove's high throne have ever stood, the source of evil one, and one of good; from thence the cup of mortal man he fills, blessings to these, to those distributes ills; to most he mingles both. 
 Wise to resolve, and patient to perform. 
 Without a sign, his sword the brave man draws, and asks no omen, but his country's cause. 
 Words empty as the wind are best left unsaid. 
 Yet, taught by time, my heart has learned to glow for other's good, and melt at other's woe.
===
--H P Lovecraft--
Blue, green, grey, white, or black; smooth, ruffled, or mountainous; that ocean is not silent. 
 Bunch together a group of people deliberately chosen for strong religious feelings, and you have a practical guarantee of dark morbidities expressed in crime, perversion, and insanity. 
 But are not the dreams of poets and the tales of travellers notoriously false? 
 But more wonderful than the lore of old men and the lore of books is the secret lore of ocean. 
 Heaven knows where I'll end up - but it's a safe bet that I'll never be at the top of anything! Nor do I particularly care to be. 
 I am disillusioned enough to know that no man's opinion on any subject is worth a damn unless backed up with enough genuine information to make him really know what he's talking about. 
 I couldn't live a week without a private library - indeed, I'd part with all my furniture and squat and sleep on the floor before I'd let go of the 1500 or so books I possess. 
 I fear my enthusiasm flags when real work is demanded of me. 
 I never ask a man what his business is, for it never interests me. What I ask him about are his thoughts and dreams. 
 If I could create an ideal world, it would be an England with the fire of the Elizabethans, the correct taste of the Georgians, and the refinement and pure ideals of the Victorians. 
 If religion were true, its followers would not try to bludgeon their young into an artificial conformity; but would merely insist on their unbending quest for truth, irrespective of artificial backgrounds or practical consequences. 
 Ocean is more ancient than the mountains, and freighted with the memories and the dreams of Time. 
 Searchers after horror haunt strange, far places. 
 The most merciful thing in the world... is the inability of the human mind to correlate all its contents. 
 The process of delving into the black abyss is to me the keenest form of fascination. 
 The world is indeed comic, but the joke is on mankind. 
 There be those who say that things and places have souls, and there be those who say they have not; I dare not say, myself, but I will tell of The Street. 
 To the scientist there is the joy in pursuing truth which nearly counteracts the depressing revelations of truth. 
 Toil without song is like a weary journey without an end. 
 We shall see that at which dogs howl in the dark, and that at which cats prick up their ears after midnight. 
What a man does for pay is of little significance. What he is, as a sensitive instrument responsive to the world's beauty, is everything!
===
--Jack London--
A bone to the dog is not charity. Charity is the bone shared with the dog, when you are just as hungry as the dog. 
Affluence means influence. 
Darn the wheel of the world! Why must it continually turn over? Where is the reverse gear? 
I would rather be a superb meteor, every atom of me in magnificent glow, than a sleepy and permanent planet. 
I would rather be ashes than dust! I would rather be a superb meteor, every atom of me in magnificent glow, than a sleepy and permanent planet. 
I write for no other purpose than to add to the beauty that now belongs to me. I write a book for no other reason than to add three or four hundred acres to my magnificent estate. 
If cash comes with fame, come fame; if cash comes without fame, come cash. 
Life is not a matter of holding good cards, but sometimes, playing a poor hand well. 
One cannot violate the promptings of one's nature without having that nature recoil upon itself. 
San Francisco is gone. Nothing remains of it but memories. 
The proper function of man is to live, not to exist. I shall not waste my days in trying to prolong them. I shall use my time. 
The scab is a traitor to his God, his mother, and his class. 
There is an ecstasy that marks the summit of life, and beyond which life cannot rise. And such is the paradox of living, this ecstasy comes when one is most alive, and it comes as a complete forgetfulness that one is alive. 
You can't wait for inspiration. You have to go after it with a club. 
===
--James Joyce--
A corpse is meat gone bad. Well and what's cheese? Corpse of milk. 
 A man of genius makes no mistakes; his errors are volitional and are the portals of discovery. 
 A man's errors are his portals of discovery. 
 A nation is the same people living in the same place. 
 And then I asked him with my eyes to ask again yes and then he asked me would I yes and his heart was going like mad and yes I said yes I will yes. 
 Better pass boldly into that other world, in the full glory of some passion, than fade and wither dismally with age. 
 Christopher Columbus, as everyone knows, is honored by posterity because he was the last to discover America. 
 He found in the world without as actual what was in his world within as possible. 
 I am tomorrow, or some future day, what I establish today. I am today what I established yesterday or some previous day. 
 I fear those big words which make us so unhappy. 
 I think a child should be allowed to take his father's or mother's name at will on coming of age. Paternity is a legal fiction. 
 I've put in so many enigmas and puzzles that it will keep the professors busy for centuries arguing over what I meant, and that's the only way of insuring one's immortality. 
 If Ireland is to become a new Ireland she must first become European. 
 Ireland is the old sow that eats her farrow. 
 Ireland sober is Ireland stiff. 
 Irresponsibility is part of the pleasure of all art; it is the part the schools cannot recognize. 
 Love between man and man is impossible because there must not be sexual intercourse and friendship between man and woman is impossible because there must be sexual intercourse. 
 Men are governed by lines of intellect - women: by curves of emotion. 
 Mistakes are the portals of discovery. 
 My mouth is full of decayed teeth and my soul of decayed ambitions. 
My words in her mind: cold polished stones sinking through a quagmire. 
 Nations have their ego, just like individuals. 
 No pen, no ink, no table, no room, no time, no quiet, no inclination. 
 Poetry, even when apparently most fantastic, is always a revolt against artifice, a revolt, in a sense, against actuality. 
 Satan, really, is the romantic youth of Jesus re-appearing for a moment. 
 Shakespeare is the happy hunting ground of all minds that have lost their balance. 
 The actions of men are the best interpreters of their thoughts. 
 The artist, like the God of the creation, remains within or behind or beyond or above his handiwork, invisible, refined out of existence, indifferent, paring his fingernails. 
 The demand that I make of my reader is that he should devote his whole Life to reading my works. 
 The men that is now is only all palaver and what they can get out of you. 
 There is no heresy or no philosophy which is so abhorrent to the church as a human being. 
 Think you're escaping and run into yourself. Longest way round is the shortest way home. 
 Well and what's cheese? Corpse of milk. 
 Whatever else is unsure in this stinking dunghill of a world a mother's love is not. 
 When I die Dublin will be written in my heart. 
 Writing in English is the most ingenious torture ever devised for sins committed in previous lives. The English reading public explains the reason why. 
 You forget that the kingdom of heaven suffers violence: and the kingdom of heaven is like a woman. 
 Your battles inspired me - not the obvious material battles but those that were fought and won behind your forehead. 
===
--Jane Austen--
A lady's imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to love, from love to matrimony in a moment. 
 A large income is the best recipe for happiness I ever heard of. 
 A mind lively and at ease, can do with seeing nothing, and can see nothing that does not answer. 
 A person who can write a long letter with ease, cannot write ill. 
 A woman, especially, if she have the misfortune of knowing anything, should conceal it as well as she can. 
 An artist cannot do anything slovenly. 
 An engaged woman is always more agreeable than a disengaged. She is satisfied with herself. Her cares are over, and she feels that she may exert all her powers of pleasing without suspicion. All is safe with a lady engaged; no harm can be done. 
 Business, you know, may bring you money, but friendship hardly ever does. 
 Dress is at all times a frivolous distinction, and excessive solicitude about it often destroys its own aim. 
 Every man is surrounded by a neighborhood of voluntary spies. 
 For what do we live, but to make sport for our neighbors and laugh at them in our turn? 
 Friendship is certainly the finest balm for the pangs of disappointed love. 
 From politics, it was an easy step to silence. 
 General benevolence, but not general friendship, made a man what he ought to be. 
 Give a girl an education and introduce her properly into the world, and ten to one but she has the means of settling well, without further expense to anybody. 
 Good-humoured, unaffected girls, will not do for a man who has been used to sensible women. They are two distinct orders of being. 
 Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance. 
 How quick come the reasons for approving what we like! 
 Human nature is so well disposed towards those who are in interesting situations, that a young person, who either marries or dies, is sure of being kindly spoken of. 
 Husbands and wives generally understand when opposition will be vain. 
 I am afraid that the pleasantness of an employment does not always evince its propriety. 
 I cannot speak well enough to be unintelligible. 
 I do not want people to be very agreeable, as it saves me the trouble of liking them a great deal. 
 I have been a selfish being all my life, in practice, though not in principle. 
 If I loved you less, I might be able to talk about it more. 
 If things are going untowardly one month, they are sure to mend the next. 
 It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife. 
 It is always incomprehensible to a man that a woman should ever refuse an offer of marriage. 
 It is happy for you that you possess the talent of flattering with delicacy. May I ask whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the moment, or are they the result of previous study? 
 It sometimes happens that a woman is handsomer at twenty-nine than she was ten years before. 
 It will, I believe, be everywhere found, that as the clergy are, or are not what they ought to be, so are the rest of the nation. 
 Let other pens dwell on guilt and misery. 
 Life seems but a quick succession of busy nothings. 
 Men have had every advantage of us in telling their own story. Education has been theirs in so much higher a degree; the pen has been in their hands. I will not allow books to prove anything. 
 My idea of good company is the company of clever, well-informed people who have a great deal of conversation; that is what I call good company. 
 My sore throats are always worse than anyone's. 
 Next to being married, a girl likes to be crossed in love a little now and then. 
 No man is offended by another man's admiration of the woman he loves; it is the woman only who can make it a torment. 
 Nobody minds having what is too good for them. 
 Nothing is more deceitful than the appearance of humility. It is often only carelessness of opinion, and sometimes an indirect boast. 
Oh! do not attack me with your watch. A watch is always too fast or too slow. I cannot be dictated to by a watch. 
 One cannot be always laughing at a man without now and then stumbling on something witty. 
 One does not love a place the less for having suffered in it, unless it has been all suffering, nothing but suffering. 
 One half of the world cannot understand the pleasures of the other. 
 One man's style must not be the rule of another's. 
 One man's ways may be as good as another's, but we all like our own best. 
 Respect for right conduct is felt by every body. 
 Seldom, very seldom, does complete truth belong to any human disclosure; seldom can it happen that something is not a little disguised, or a little mistaken. 
 Selfishness must always be forgiven you know, because there is no hope of a cure. 
 Single women have a dreadful propensity for being poor. Which is one very strong argument in favor of matrimony. 
 Surprises are foolish things. The pleasure is not enhanced, and the inconvenience is often considerable. 
 The more I know of the world, the more I am convinced that I shall never see a man whom I can really love. 
 The person, be it gentleman or lady, who has not pleasure in a good novel, must be intolerably stupid. 
 There are certainly not so many men of large fortune in the world, as there are pretty women to deserve them. 
 There are people, who the more you do for them, the less they will do for themselves. 
 There is no charm equal to tenderness of heart. 
 There is nothing like staying at home for real comfort. 
 There is something so amiable in the prejudices of a young mind, that one is sorry to see them give way to the reception of more general opinions. 
 They are much to be pitied who have not been given a taste for nature early in life. 
 Those who do not complain are never pitied. 
 To be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love. 
 To flatter and follow others, without being flattered and followed in turn, is but a state of half enjoyment. 
 To look almost pretty is an acquisition of higher delight to a girl who has been looking plain for the first fifteen years of her life than a beauty from her cradle can ever receive. 
 To sit in the shade on a fine day and look upon verdure is the most perfect refreshment. 
 Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously. A person may be proud without being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of ourselves; vanity, to what we would have others think of us. 
 Vanity working on a weak head, produces every sort of mischief. 
 We do not look in our great cities for our best morality. 
 We have all a better guide in ourselves, if we would attend to it, than any other person can be. 
 What is right to be done cannot be done too soon. 
 What wild imaginations one forms where dear self is concerned! How sure to be mistaken! 
 Where an opinion is general, it is usually correct. 
 Where youth and diffidence are united, it requires uncommon steadiness of reason to resist the attraction of being called the most charming girl in the world. 
 Woman is fine for her own satisfaction alone. No man will admire her the more, no woman will like her the better for it. Neatness and fashion are enough for the former, and a something of shabbiness or impropriety will be most endearing to the latter. 
===
--Jonathan Swift--
A lie does not consist in the indirect position of words, but in the desire and intention, by false speaking, to deceive and injure your neighbour. 
 A man should never be ashamed to own that he has been in the wrong, which is but saying... that he is wiser today than yesterday. 
 A tavern is a place where madness is sold by the bottle. 
 A wise man should have money in his head, but not in his heart. 
 A wise person should have money in their head, but not in their heart. 
 Although men are accused of not knowing their own weakness, yet perhaps few know their own strength. It is in men as in soils, where sometimes there is a vein of gold which the owner knows not of. 
 As blushing will sometimes make a whore pass for a virtuous woman, so modesty may make a fool seem a man of sense. 
 As love without esteem is capricious and volatile; esteem without love is languid and cold. 
 Better belly burst than good liquor be lost. 
 Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed. 
 Books, the children of the brain. 
 Censure is the tax a man pays to the public for being eminent. 
 Don't set your wit against a child. 
 Every dog must have his day. 
 Every man desires to live long, but no man wishes to be old. 
 For in reason, all government without the consent of the governed is the very definition of slavery. 
 Good manners is the art of making those people easy with whom we converse. Whoever makes the fewest people uneasy is the best bred in the room. 
 He was a bold man that first eat an oyster. 
 He was a fiddler, and consequently a rogue. 
 Human brutes, like other beasts, find snares and poison in the provision of life, and are allured by their appetites to their destruction. 
 I never knew a man come to greatness or eminence who lay abed late in the morning. 
 I never saw, heard, nor read, that the clergy were beloved in any nation where Christianity was the religion of the country. Nothing can render them popular, but some degree of persecution. 
 I never wonder to see men wicked, but I often wonder to see them not ashamed. 
 I wonder what fool it was that first invented kissing. 
 If Heaven had looked upon riches to be a valuable thing, it would not have given them to such a scoundrel. 
 Interest is the spur of the people, but glory that of great souls. Invention is the talent of youth, and judgment of age. 
 Invention is the talent of youth, as judgment is of age. 
 It is a maxim among these lawyers, that whatever hath been done before, may legally be done again: and therefore they take special care to record all the decisions formerly made against common justice and the general reason of mankind. 
 It is impossible that anything so natural, so necessary, and so universal as death, should ever have been designed by providence as an evil to mankind. 
 It is in men as in soils where sometimes there is a vein of gold which the owner knows not. 
 It is the folly of too many to mistake the echo of a London coffee-house for the voice of the kingdom. 
 Laws are like cobwebs, which may catch small flies, but let wasps and hornets break through. 
 May you live all the days of your life. 
 Men are happy to be laughed at for their humor, but not for their folly. 
 Most sorts of diversion in men, children and other animals, are in imitation of fighting. 
 My nose itched, and I knew I should drink wine or kiss a fool. 
 No man was ever so completely skilled in the conduct of life, as not to receive new information from age and experience. 
 No wise man ever wished to be younger. 
 Nothing is so great an example of bad manners as flattery. If you flatter all the company, you please none; If you flatter only one or two, you offend the rest. 
 Nothing is so hard for those who abound in riches as to conceive how others can be in want. 
Observation is an old man's memory. 
 Once kick the world, and the world and you will live together at a reasonably good understanding. 
 One enemy can do more hurt than ten friends can do good. 
 Politics, as the word is commonly understood, are nothing but corruptions. 
 Poor nations are hungry, and rich nations are proud; and pride and hunger will ever be at variance. 
 Positiveness is a good quality for preachers and speakers because, whoever shares his thoughts with the public will convince them as he himself appears convinced. 
 Power is no blessing in itself, except when it is used to protect the innocent. 
 Principally I hate and detest that animal called man; although I heartily love John, Peter, Thomas, and so forth. 
 Promises and pie-crust are made to be broken. 
 Satire is a sort of glass, wherein beholders do generally discover everybody's face but their own. 
 The best doctors in the world are Doctor Diet, Doctor Quiet, and Doctor Merryman. 
 The latter part of a wise person's life is occupied with curing the follies, prejudices and false opinions they contracted earlier. 
 The power of fortune is confessed only by the miserable, for the happy impute all their success to prudence or merit. 
 The proper words in the proper places are the true definition of style. 
 The stoical scheme of supplying our wants by lopping off our desires, is like cutting off our feet when we want shoes. 
 The want of belief is a defect that ought to be concealed when it cannot be overcome. 
 There are few, very few, that will own themselves in a mistake. 
 There is nothing constant in this world but inconsistency. 
 There were many times my pants were so thin I could sit on a dime and tell if it was heads or tails. 
 Under this window in stormy weather I marry this man and woman together; Let none but Him who rules the thunder Put this man and woman asunder. 
Vanity is a mark of humility rather than of pride. 
 Vision is the art of seeing what is invisible to others. 
 We are so fond on one another because our ailments are the same. 
 We have enough religion to make us hate, but not enough to make us love one another. 
 What they do in heaven we are ignorant of; what they do not do we are told expressly. 
 When a true genius appears, you can know him by this sign: that all the dunces are in a confederacy against him. 
 Where I am not understood, it shall be concluded that something very useful and profound is couched underneath. 
 Where there are large powers with little ambition... nature may be said to have fallen short of her purposes. 
 Words are but wind; and learning is nothing but words; ergo, learning is nothing but wind. 
===
--Joseph Conrad--
A caricature is putting the face of a joke on the body of a truth. 
 A man that is born falls into a dream like a man who falls into the sea. If he tries to climb out into the air as inexperienced people endeavor to do, he drowns. 
 A man's most open actions have a secret side to them. 
 A man's real life is that accorded to him in the thoughts of other men by reason of respect or natural love. 
 A modern fleet of ships does not so much make use of the sea as exploit a highway. 
 A word carries far, very far, deals destruction through time as the bullets go flying through space. 
 Action is consolatory. It is the enemy of thought and the friend of flattering illusions. 
 All ambitions are lawful except those which climb upward on the miseries or credulities of mankind. 
 An artist is a man of action, whether he creates a personality, invents an expedient, or finds the issue of a complicated situation. 
 Any work that aspires, however humbly, to the condition of art should carry its justification in every line. 
 As in political so in literary action a man wins friends for himself mostly by the passion of his prejudices and the consistent narrowness of his outlook. 
 As to honor - you know - it's a very fine mediaeval inheritance which women never got hold of. It wasn't theirs. 
 Being a woman is a terribly difficult task, since it consists principally in dealing with men. 
 Criticism, that fine flower of personal expression in the garden of letters. 
 Don't you forget what's divine in the Russian soul and that's resignation. 
 Each blade of grass has its spot on earth whence it draws its life, its strength; and so is man rooted to the land from which he draws his faith together with his life. 
 Facing it, always facing it, that's the way to get through. Face it. 
 For all that has been said of the love that certain natures (on shore) have professed for it, for all the celebrations it has been the object of in prose and song, the sea has never been friendly to man. At most it has been the accomplice of human restlessness. 
 Going home must be like going to render an account. 
 Gossip is what no one claims to like, but everybody enjoys. 
 He who wants to persuade should put his trust not in the right argument, but in the right word. The power of sound has always been greater than the power of sense. 
 History repeats itself, but the special call of an art which has passed away is never reproduced. It is as utterly gone out of the world as the song of a destroyed wild bird. 
 How does one kill fear, I wonder? How do you shoot a specter through the heart, slash off its spectral head, take it by its spectral throat? 
 I don't like work... but I like what is in work - the chance to find yourself. Your own reality - for yourself, not for others - which no other man can ever know. 
 I had ambition not only to go farther than any man had ever been before, but as far as it was possible for a man to go. 
 I take it that what all men are really after is some form or perhaps only some formula of peace. 
 In order to move others deeply we must deliberately allow ourselves to be carried away beyond the bounds of our normal sensibility. 
 It is a maudlin and indecent verity that comes out through the strength of wine. 
 It is not the clear-sighted who rule the world. Great achievements are accomplished in a blessed, warm fog. 
 It is respectable to have no illusions, and safe, and profitable and dull. 
 It is to be remarked that a good many people are born curiously unfitted for the fate waiting them on this earth. 
 Nations it may be have fashioned their Governments, but the Governments have paid them back in the same coin. 
 Only in men's imagination does every truth find an effective and undeniable existence. Imagination, not invention, is the supreme master of art as of life. 
 Perhaps life is just that... a dream and a fear. 
 Resignation, not mystic, not detached, but resignation open-eyed, conscious, and informed by love, is the only one of our feelings for which it is impossible to become a sham. 
 Some great men owe most of their greatness to the ability of detecting in those they destine for their tools the exact quality of strength that matters for their work. 
 The belief in a supernatural source of evil is not necessary; men alone are quite capable of every wickedness. 
 The conquest of the earth, which mostly means the taking it away from those who have a different complexion or slightly flatter noses than ourselves, is not a pretty thing when you look into it too much. 
 The last thing a woman will consent to discover in a man whom she loves, or on whom she simply depends, is want of courage. 
 The scrupulous and the just, the noble, humane, and devoted natures; the unselfish and the intelligent may begin a movement - but it passes away from them. They are not the leaders of a revolution. They are its victims. 
The sea - this truth must be confessed - has no generosity. No display of manly qualities - courage, hardihood, endurance, faithfulness - has ever been known to touch its irresponsible consciousness of power. 
 The sea has never been friendly to man. At most it has been the accomplice of human restlessness. 
 There are men here and there to whom the whole of life is like an after-dinner hour with a cigar; easy, pleasant, empty, perhaps enlivened by some fable of strife to be forgotten - before the end is told - even if there happens to be any end to it. 
 There is nothing more enticing, disenchanting, and enslaving than the life at sea. 
 They talk of a man betraying his country, his friends, his sweetheart. There must be a moral bond first. All a man can betray is his conscience. 
 This magnificent butterfly finds a little heap of dirt and sits still on it; but man will never on his heap of mud keep still. 
 To a teacher of languages there comes a time when the world is but a place of many words and man appears a mere talking animal not much more wonderful than a parrot. 
 To have his path made clear for him is the aspiration of every human being in our beclouded and tempestuous existence. 
 Truth of a modest sort I can promise you, and also sincerity. That complete, praiseworthy sincerity which, while it delivers one into the hands of one's enemies, is as likely as not to embroil one with one's friends. 
 Who knows what true loneliness is - not the conventional word but the naked terror? To the lonely themselves it wears a mask. The most miserable outcast hugs some memory or some illusion. 
 Woe to the man whose heart has not learned while young to hope, to love - and to put its trust in life. 
 Words, as is well known, are the great foes of reality. 
 You can't, in sound morals, condemn a man for taking care of his own integrity. It is his clear duty. 
 You shall judge a man by his foes as well as by his friends. 
===
--Lewis Carroll--
Always speak the truth, think before you speak, and write it down afterwards. 
 Begin at the beginning and go on till you come to the end; then stop. 
 'But I don't want to go among mad people,' said Alice. 'Oh, you can't help that,' said the cat. 'We're all mad here.' 
 But I was thinking of a way To multiply by ten, And always, in the answer, get The question back again. 
 Contrariwise, if it was so, it might be; and if it were so, it would be; but as it isn't, it ain't. That's logic. 
 Everything's got a moral, if only you can find it. 
 His answer trickled through my head like water through a sieve. 
 I can't go back to yesterday - because I was a different person then. 
 I have proved by actual trial that a letter, that takes an hour to write, takes only about 3 minutes to read! 
 If you don't know where you are going, any road will get you there. 
 It's a poor sort of memory that only works backwards. 
 No good fish goes anywhere without a porpoise. 
 Oh, 'tis love, 'tis love that makes the world go round. 
 One of the secrets of life is that all that is really worth the doing is what we do for others. 
 Sentence first, verdict afterwards. 
 She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very seldom followed it). 
 Sometimes I've believed as many as six impossible things before breakfast. 
 Take care of the sense and the sounds will take care of themselves. 
 That's the reason they're called lessons, because they lesson from day to day. 
 The rule is, jam tomorrow and jam yesterday - but never jam today. 
 'The time has come,' the walrus said, 'to talk of many things: of shoes and ships - and sealing wax - of cabbages and kings.' 
 There are three hundred and sixty-four days when you might get un-birthday presents, and only one for birthday presents, you know. 
 There comes a pause, for human strength will not endure to dance without cessation; and everyone must reach the point at length of absolute prostration. 
 Twinkle, twinkle little bat How I wonder what you're at! Up above the world you fly, Like a tea-tray in the sky. 
 We called him Tortoise because he taught us. 
 'What is the use of a book', thought Alice, 'without pictures or conversations?' 
 'When I use a word,' Humpty Dumpty said in rather a scornful tone, 'it means just what I choose it to mean - neither more nor less.' 
 Which form of proverb do you prefer Better late than never, or Better never than late? 
 While the laughter of joy is in full harmony with our deeper life, the laughter of amusement should be kept apart from it. The danger is too great of thus learning to look at solemn things in a spirit of mockery, and to seek in them opportunities for exercising wit. 
 Who in the world am I? Ah, that's the great puzzle. 
 Why, sometimes I've believed as many as six impossible things before breakfast. 
 
===
--Mark Twain--
A man cannot be comfortable without his own approval. 
 A man is never more truthful than when he acknowledges himself a liar. 
 A man who carries a cat by the tail learns something he can learn in no other way. 
 A man's character may be learned from the adjectives which he habitually uses in conversation. 
 A person who won't read has no advantage over one who can't read. 
 A person with a new idea is a crank until the idea succeeds. 
 A round man cannot be expected to fit in a square hole right away. He must have time to modify his shape. 
 Action speaks louder than words but not nearly as often. 
 Against the assault of laughter nothing can stand. 
 Age is an issue of mind over matter. If you don't mind, it doesn't matter. 
 All generalizations are false, including this one. 
 All right, then, I'll go to hell. 
 All you need is ignorance and confidence and the success is sure. 
 Always do right. This will gratify some people and astonish the rest. 
 Anger is an acid that can do more harm to the vessel in which it is stored than to anything on which it is poured. 
 Any emotion, if it is sincere, is involuntary. 
 Apparently there is nothing that cannot happen today. 
 As an example to others, and not that I care for moderation myself, it has always been my rule never to smoke when asleep, and never to refrain from smoking when awake. 
 Be careful about reading health books. You may die of a misprint. 
 Be careless in your dress if you will, but keep a tidy soul. 
Better a broken promise than none at all. 
 Better to remain silent and be thought a fool than to speak out and remove all doubt. 
 Biographies are but the clothes and buttons of the man. The biography of the man himself cannot be written. 
 But who prays for Satan? Who, in eighteen centuries, has had the common humanity to pray for the one sinner that needed it most? 
 Buy land, they're not making it anymore. 
 By trying we can easily endure adversity. Another man's, I mean. 
 Cauliflower is nothing but cabbage with a college education. 
 Civilization is the limitless multiplication of unnecessary necessities. 
 'Classic.' A book which people praise and don't read. 
 Climate is what we expect, weather is what we get. 
 Clothes make the man. Naked people have little or no influence on society. 
 Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear, not absence of fear. 
 Denial ain't just a river in Egypt. 
 Do the right thing. It will gratify some people and astonish the rest. 
 Do the thing you fear most and the death of fear is certain. 
 Don't go around saying the world owes you a living. The world owes you nothing. It was here first. 
 Don't let schooling interfere with your education. 
 Don't part with your illusions. When they are gone, you may still exist, but you have ceased to live. 
 Don't say the old lady screamed. Bring her on and let her scream. 
 Don't tell fish stories where the people know you; but particularly, don't tell them where they know the fish. 
Drag your thoughts away from your troubles... by the ears, by the heels, or any other way you can manage it. 
 Education consists mainly of what we have unlearned. 
 Everything has its limit - iron ore cannot be educated into gold. 
 Everything human is pathetic. The secret source of humor itself is not joy but sorrow. There is no humor in heaven. 
 Facts are stubborn, but statistics are more pliable. 
 Familiarity breeds contempt - and children. 
 Few things are harder to put up with than the annoyance of a good example. 
 Fiction is obliged to stick to possibilities. Truth isn't. 
 Forgiveness is the fragrance that the violet sheds on the heel that has crushed it. 
 George Washington, as a boy, was ignorant of the commonest accomplishments of youth. He could not even lie. 
 Get your facts first, then you can distort them as you please. 
 Giving up smoking is the easiest thing in the world. I know because I've done it thousands of times. 
 Go to Heaven for the climate, Hell for the company. 
 God made the Idiot for practice, and then He made the School Board. 
 Golf is a good walk spoiled. 
 Good breeding consists in concealing how much we think of ourselves and how little we think of the other person. 
 Good friends, good books and a sleepy conscience: this is the ideal life. 
 Grief can take care if itself, but to get the full value of a joy you must have somebody to divide it with. 
 He is now rising from affluence to poverty. 
 Honesty is the best policy - when there is money in it. 
Humor is mankind's greatest blessing. 
 Humor must not professedly teach and it must not professedly preach, but it must do both if it would live forever. 
 I am an old man and have known a great many troubles, but most of them never happened. 
 I can live for two months on a good compliment. 
 I didn't attend the funeral, but I sent a nice letter saying I approved of it. 
 I don't give a damn for a man that can only spell a word one way. 
 I don't like to commit myself about heaven and hell - you see, I have friends in both places. 
 I have been complimented many times and they always embarrass me; I always feel that they have not said enough. 
 I have made it a rule never to smoke more that one cigar at a time. 
 I have never let my schooling interfere with my education. 
 I have never taken any exercise except sleeping and resting. 
 I make it a rule never to smoke while I'm sleeping. 
 I must have a prodigious quantity of mind; it takes me as much as a week sometimes to make it up. 
 I never let schooling interfere with my education. 
 I was gratified to be able to answer promptly, and I did. I said I didn't know. 
 I was seldom able to see an opportunity until it had ceased to be one. 
 I've never let my school interfere with my education. 
 Ideally a book would have no order to it, and the reader would have to discover his own. 
 If it's your job to eat a frog, it's best to do it first thing in the morning. And If it's your job to eat two frogs, it's best to eat the biggest one first. 
 If man could be crossed with the cat, it would improve man but deteriorate the cat. 
If the world comes to an end, I want to be in Cincinnati. Everything comes there ten years later. 
 If you hold a cat by the tail you learn things you cannot learn any other way. 
 If you tell the truth, you don't have to remember anything. 
 In the first place, God made idiots. That was for practice. Then he made school boards. 
 In the Spring, I have counted 136 different kinds of weather inside of 24 hours. 
 It ain't those parts of the Bible that I can't understand that bother me, it is the parts that I do understand. 
 It ain't what you don't know that gets you into trouble. It's what you know for sure that just ain't so. 
 It could probably be shown by facts and figures that there is no distinctly native criminal class except Congress. 
 It is better to deserve honors and not have them than to have them and not deserve them. 
 It is better to keep your mouth closed and let people think you are a fool than to open it and remove all doubt. 
 It is better to take what does not belong to you than to let it lie around neglected. 
 It is by the goodness of God that in our country we have those three unspeakably precious things: freedom of speech, freedom of conscience, and the prudence never to practice either of them. 
 It is curious that physical courage should be so common in the world and moral courage so rare. 
 It is easier to stay out than get out. 
 It is just like man's vanity and impertinence to call an animal dumb because it is dumb to his dull perceptions. 
 It is not best that we should all think alike; it is a difference of opinion that makes horse races. 
 It usually takes me more than three weeks to prepare a good impromptu speech. 
 It was wonderful to find America, but it would have been more wonderful to miss it. 
 It's good sportsmanship to not pick up lost golf balls while they are still rolling. 
 It's no wonder that truth is stranger than fiction. Fiction has to make sense. 
It's not the size of the dog in the fight, it's the size of the fight in the dog. 
 Kindness is the language which the deaf can hear and the blind can see. 
 Laws control the lesser man... Right conduct controls the greater one. 
 Let us live so that when we come to die even the undertaker will be sorry. 
 Let us make a special effort to stop communicating with each other, so we can have some conversation. 
 Let us not be too particular; it is better to have old secondhand diamonds than none at all. 
 Life would be infinitely happier if we could only be born at the age of eighty and gradually approach eighteen. 
 Lord save us all from a hope tree that has lost the faculty of putting out blossoms. 
 Loyalty to petrified opinion never yet broke a chain or freed a human soul. 
 Loyalty to the country always. Loyalty to the government when it deserves it. 
 Man - a creature made at the end of the week's work when God was tired. 
 Man is the only animal that blushes - or needs to. 
 Man was made at the end of the week's work when God was tired. 
 Man will do many things to get himself loved, he will do all things to get himself envied. 
 Many a small thing has been made large by the right kind of advertising. 
 Martyrdom covers a multitude of sins. 
 My books are like water; those of the great geniuses are wine. (Fortunately) everybody drinks water. 
 My mother had a great deal of trouble with me, but I think she enjoyed it. 
 Name the greatest of all inventors. Accident. 
 Necessity is the mother of taking chances. 
Never put off till tomorrow what you can do the day after tomorrow. 
 No sinner is ever saved after the first twenty minutes of a sermon. 
 Noise proves nothing. Often a hen who has merely laid an egg cackles as if she laid an asteroid. 
 Nothing so needs reforming as other people's habits. 
 Often it does seem a pity that Noah and his party did not miss the boat. 
 One of the most striking differences between a cat and a lie is that a cat has only nine lives. 
 Only kings, presidents, editors, and people with tapeworms have the right to use the editorial "we." 
 Only one thing is impossible for God: To find any sense in any copyright law on the planet. 
 Part of the secret of a success in life is to eat what you like and let the food fight it out inside. 
 Patriot: the person who can holler the loudest without knowing what he is hollering about. 
 Patriotism is supporting your country all the time, and your government when it deserves it. 
 Principles have no real force except when one is well-fed. 
 Prophesy is a good line of business, but it is full of risks. 
 Prosperity is the best protector of principle. 
 Reader, suppose you were an idiot. And suppose you were a member of Congress. But I repeat myself. 
 Repartee is something we think of twenty-four hours too late. 
 Soap and education are not as sudden as a massacre, but they are more deadly in the long run. 
 Sometimes too much to drink is barely enough. 
 Substitute "damn" every time you're inclined to write "very"; your editor will delete it and the writing will be just as it should be. 
 Such is the human race, often it seems a pity that Noah... didn't miss the boat. 
Suppose you were an idiot, and suppose you were a member of Congress; but I repeat myself. 
 The best way to cheer yourself up is to try to cheer somebody else up. 
 The Christian's Bible is a drug store. Its contents remain the same, but the medical practice changes. 
 The difference between the right word and the almost right word is the difference between lightning and a lightning bug. 
 The educated Southerner has no use for an 'R', except at the beginning of a word. 
 The fear of death follows from the fear of life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time. 
 The first of April is the day we remember what we are the other 364 days of the year. 
 The human race has one really effective weapon, and that is laughter. 
 The human race is a race of cowards; and I am not only marching in that procession but carrying a banner. 
 The lack of money is the root of all evil. 
 The main difference between a cat and a lie is that a cat only has nine lives. 
 The man who does not read good books has no advantage over the man who cannot read them. 
 The man who is a pessimist before 48 knows too much; if he is an optimist after it, he knows too little. 
 The more things are forbidden, the more popular they become. 
 The more you explain it, the more I don't understand it. 
 The most interesting information comes from children, for they tell all they know and then stop. 
 The only way to keep your health is to eat what you don't want, drink what you don't like, and do what you'd rather not. 
 The Public is merely a multiplied "me." 
 The public is the only critic whose opinion is worth anything at all. 
 The reports of my death have been greatly exaggerated. The right word may be effective, but no word was ever as effective as a rightly timed pause. 
 The rule is perfect: in all matters of opinion our adversaries are insane. 
 The secret source of humor is not joy but sorrow; there is no humor in Heaven. 
 The trouble ain't that there is too many fools, but that the lightning ain't distributed right. 
 The very ink with which history is written is merely fluid prejudice. 
 The wit knows that his place is at the tail of a procession. 
 There are basically two types of people. People who accomplish things, and people who claim to have accomplished things. The first group is less crowded. 
 There are lies, damned lies and statistics. 
 There are people who can do all fine and heroic things but one - keep from telling their happiness to the unhappy. 
 There are several good protections against temptation, but the surest is cowardice. 
 There are times when one would like to hang the whole human race, and finish the farce. 
 There is a charm about the forbidden that makes it unspeakably desirable. 
 There is no distinctly American criminal class - except Congress. 
 There is no sadder sight than a young pessimist. 
 Thousands of geniuses live and die undiscovered - either by themselves or by others. 
 Thunder is good, thunder is impressive; but it is lightning that does the work. 
 To be good is noble; but to show others how to be good is nobler and no trouble. 
 To refuse awards is another way of accepting them with more noise than is normal. 
 To succeed in life, you need two things: ignorance and confidence. 
 Truth is mighty and will prevail. There is nothing wrong with this, except that it ain't so. 
 Truth is stranger than fiction, but it is because Fiction is obliged to stick to possibilities; Truth isn't. 
 Truth is the most valuable thing we have. Let us economize it. 
 Under certain circumstances, profanity provides a relief denied even to prayer. 
 Water, taken in moderation, cannot hurt anybody. 
 We Americans... bear the ark of liberties of the world. 
 We are all alike, on the inside. 
 We have the best government that money can buy. 
 What a good thing Adam had. When he said a good thing he knew nobody had said it before. 
 What a wee little part of a person's life are his acts and his words! His real life is led in his head, and is known to none but himself. 
 What is the difference between a taxidermist and a tax collector? The taxidermist takes only your skin. 
 What would men be without women? Scarce, sir, mighty scarce. 
 What, sir, would the people of the earth be without woman? They would be scarce, sir, almighty scarce. 
 When a person cannot deceive himself the chances are against his being able to deceive other people. 
 When angry, count to four; when very angry, swear. 
 When I was younger I could remember anything, whether it happened or not. 
 When in doubt tell the truth. 
 When people do not respect us we are sharply offended; yet in his private heart no man much respects himself. 
 When red-haired people are above a certain social grade their hair is auburn. 
 When we remember we are all mad, the mysteries disappear and life stands explained. 
 When you fish for love, bait with your heart, not your brain. 
When your friends begin to flatter you on how young you look, it's a sure sign you're getting old. 
 Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect. 
 Why is it that we rejoice at a birth and grieve at a funeral? It is because we are not the person involved. 
 Why shouldn't truth be stranger than fiction? Fiction, after all, has to make sense. 
 Wit is the sudden marriage of ideas which before their union were not perceived to have any relation. 
 Words are only painted fire; a look is the fire itself. 
 Work consists of whatever a body is obliged to do. Play consists of whatever a body is not obliged to do. 
 Work is a necessary evil to be avoided. 
 Wrinkles should merely indicate where smiles have been. 
 You can't depend on your eyes when your imagination is out of focus.
===
--Plato--
A good decision is based on knowledge and not on numbers. 
 A hero is born among a hundred, a wise man is found among a thousand, but an accomplished one might not be found even among a hundred thousand men. 
 A state arises, as I conceive, out of the needs of mankind; no one is self-sufficing, but all of us have many wants. 
 All men are by nature equal, made all of the same earth by one Workman; and however we deceive ourselves, as dear unto God is the poor peasant as the mighty prince. 
 All the gold which is under or upon the earth is not enough to give in exchange for virtue. 
 All things will be produced in superior quantity and quality, and with greater ease, when each man works at a single occupation, in accordance with his natural gifts, and at the right moment, without meddling with anything else. 
 And what, Socrates, is the food of the soul? Surely, I said, knowledge is the food of the soul. 
 Any man may easily do harm, but not every man can do good to another. 
 Apply yourself both now and in the next life. Without effort, you cannot be prosperous. Though the land be good, You cannot have an abundant crop without cultivation. 
 As the builders say, the larger stones do not lie well without the lesser. 
 Astronomy compels the soul to look upwards and leads us from this world to another. 
 At the touch of love everyone becomes a poet. 
 Attention to health is life greatest hindrance. 
 Better a little which is well done, than a great deal imperfectly. 
 Courage is a kind of salvation. 
 Courage is knowing what not to fear. 
 Cunning... is but the low mimic of wisdom. 
 Death is not the worst that can happen to men. 
 Democracy passes into despotism. 
 Democracy... is a charming form of government, full of variety and disorder; and dispensing a sort of equality to equals and unequals alike. 
 
Dictatorship naturally arises out of democracy, and the most aggravated form of tyranny and slavery out of the most extreme liberty. 
 Entire ignorance is not so terrible or extreme an evil, and is far from being the greatest of all; too much cleverness and too much learning, accompanied with ill bringing-up, are far more fatal. 
 Every heart sings a song, incomplete, until another heart whispers back. Those who wish to sing always find a song. At the touch of a lover, everyone becomes a poet. 
 Excess generally causes reaction, and produces a change in the opposite direction, whether it be in the seasons, or in individuals, or in governments. 
 Excess of liberty, whether it lies in state or individuals, seems only to pass into excess of slavery. 
 For a man to conquer himself is the first and noblest of all victories. 
 For good nurture and education implant good constitutions. 
 For the introduction of a new kind of music must be shunned as imperiling the whole state; since styles of music are never disturbed without affecting the most important political institutions. 
 Good actions give strength to ourselves and inspire good actions in others. 
 Good people do not need laws to tell them to act responsibly, while bad people will find a way around the laws. 
 Hardly any human being is capable of pursuing two professions or two arts rightly. 
 He was a wise man who invented beer. 
 He who commits injustice is ever made more wretched than he who suffers it. 
 He who is not a good servant will not be a good master. 
 He who is of calm and happy nature will hardly feel the pressure of age, but to him who is of an opposite disposition youth and age are equally a burden. 
 He who steals a little steals with the same wish as he who steals much, but with less power. 
 Honesty is for the most part less profitable than dishonesty. 
 How can you prove whether at this moment we are sleeping, and all our thoughts are a dream; or whether we are awake, and talking to one another in the waking state? 
 Human behavior flows from three main sources: desire, emotion, and knowledge. 
 I exhort you also to take part in the great combat, which is the combat of life, and greater than every other earthly conflict. 
 I have hardly ever known a mathematician who was capable of reasoning. 
 I never did anything worth doing by accident, nor did any of my inventions come by accident; they came by work. 
 I shall assume that your silence gives consent. 
 I would fain grow old learning many things. 
 If a man neglects education, he walks lame to the end of his life. 
 If particulars are to have meaning, there must be universals. 
 Ignorance of all things is an evil neither terrible nor excessive, nor yet the greatest of all; but great cleverness and much learning, if they be accompanied by a bad training, are a much greater misfortune. 
 Ignorance, the root and stem of all evil. 
 Injustice is censured because the censures are afraid of suffering, and not from any fear which they have of doing injustice. 
 It is a common saying, and in everybody's mouth, that life is but a sojourn. 
 It is clear to everyone that astronomy at all events compels the soul to look upwards, and draws it from the things of this world to the other. 
 It is right to give every man his due. 
 Justice in the life and conduct of the State is possible only as first it resides in the hearts and souls of the citizens. 
 Justice means minding one's own business and not meddling with other men's concerns. 
 Know one knows whether death, which people fear to be the greatest evil, may not be the greatest good. 
 Knowledge becomes evil if the aim be not virtuous. 
 Knowledge is true opinion. 
 Knowledge which is acquired under compulsion obtains no hold on the mind. 
 Knowledge without justice ought to be called cunning rather than wisdom. 
 Let parents bequeath to their children not riches, but the spirit of reverence. 
Life must be lived as play. 
 Love is a serious mental disease. 
 Love is the joy of the good, the wonder of the wise, the amazement of the Gods. 
 Man - a being in search of meaning. 
 Man is a wingless animal with two feet and flat nails. 
 Man never legislates, but destinies and accidents, happening in all sorts of ways, legislate in all sorts of ways. 
 Music is a moral law. It gives soul to the universe, wings to the mind, flight to the imagination, and charm and gaiety to life and to everything. 
 Music is the movement of sound to reach the soul for the education of its virtue. 
 Must not all things at the last be swallowed up in death? 
 Necessity... the mother of invention. 
 No evil can happen to a good man, either in life or after death. 
 No law or ordinance is mightier than understanding. 
 No man should bring children into the world who is unwilling to persevere to the end in their nature and education. 
 No one ever teaches well who wants to teach, or governs well who wants to govern. 
 No one is a friend to his friend who does not love in return. 
 No trace of slavery ought to mix with the studies of the freeborn man. No study, pursued under compulsion, remains rooted in the memory. 
 Not to help justice in her need would be an impiety. 
 Nothing can be more absurd than the practice that prevails in our country of men and women not following the same pursuits with all their strengths and with one mind, for thus, the state instead of being whole is reduced to half. 
 Nothing in the affairs of men is worthy of great anxiety. 
 One man cannot practice many arts with success. 
One of the penalties for refusing to participate in politics is that you end up being governed by your inferiors. 
 Only the dead have seen the end of war. 
 Opinion is the medium between knowledge and ignorance. 
 Our object in the construction of the state is the greatest happiness of the whole, and not that of any one class. 
 People are like dirt. They can either nourish you and help you grow as a person or they can stunt your growth and make you wilt and die. 
 Philosophy begins in wonder. 
 Philosophy is the highest music. 
 Poetry is nearer to vital truth than history. 
 Poets utter great and wise things which they do not themselves understand. 
 Rhetoric is the art of ruling the minds of men. 
 Science is nothing but perception. 
 States are as the men, they grow out of human characters. 
 The beginning is the most important part of the work. 
 The blame is his who chooses: God is blameless. 
 The community which has neither poverty nor riches will always have the noblest principles. 
 The curse of me and my nation is that we always think things can be bettered by immediate action of some sort, any sort rather than no sort. 
 The direction in which education starts a man will determine his future in life. 
 The excessive increase of anything causes a reaction in the opposite direction. 
 The eyes of the soul of the multitudes are unable to endure the vision of the divine. 
 The first and greatest victory is to conquer yourself; to be conquered by yourself is of all things most shameful and vile. 
 
The gods' service is tolerable, man's intolerable. 
 The good is the beautiful. 
 The greatest wealth is to live content with little. 
 The highest reach of injustice is to be deemed just when you are not. 
 The learning and knowledge that we have, is, at the most, but little compared with that of which we are ignorant. 
 The man who makes everything that leads to happiness depends upon himself, and not upon other men, has adopted the very best plan for living happily. This is the man of moderation, the man of manly character and of wisdom. 
 The measure of a man is what he does with power. 
 The most important part of education is proper training in the nursery. 
 The most virtuous are those who content themselves with being virtuous without seeking to appear so. 
 The punishment which the wise suffer who refuse to take part in the government, is to live under the government of worse men. 
 The rulers of the state are the only persons who ought to have the privilege of lying, either at home or abroad; they may be allowed to lie for the good of the state. 
 The wisest have the most authority. 
 Then not only an old man, but also a drunkard, becomes a second time a child. 
 Then not only custom, but also nature affirms that to do is more disgraceful than to suffer injustice, and that justice is equality. 
 There are three classes of men; lovers of wisdom, lovers of honor, and lovers of gain. 
 There are two things a person should never be angry at, what they can help, and what they cannot. 
 There is no harm in repeating a good thing. 
 There is no such thing as a lovers' oath. 
 There must always remain something that is antagonistic to good. There's a victory, and defeat; the first and best of victories, the lowest and worst of defeats which each man gains or sustains at the hands not of another, but of himself. 
 They certainly give very strange names to diseases. 
 They do certainly give very strange, and newfangled, names to diseases. 
 Thinking: the talking of the soul with itself. 
 This and no other is the root from which a tyrant springs; when he first appears he is a protector. 
 This City is what it is because our citizens are what they are. 
 Those who intend on becoming great should love neither themselves nor their own things, but only what is just, whether it happens to be done by themselves or others. 
 To go to the world below, having a soul which is like a vessel full of injustice, is the last and worst of all the evils. 
 To love rightly is to love what is orderly and beautiful in an educated and disciplined way. 
 To prefer evil to good is not in human nature; and when a man is compelled to choose one of two evils, no one will choose the greater when he might have the less. 
 To suffer the penalty of too much haste, which is too little speed. 
 Truth is the beginning of every good to the gods, and of every good to man. 
 Twice and thrice over, as they say, good is it to repeat and review what is good. 
 Tyranny naturally arises out of democracy. 
 Virtue is relative to the actions and ages of each of us in all that we do. 
 We are twice armed if we fight with faith. 
 We can easily forgive a child who is afraid of the dark; the real tragedy of life is when men are afraid of the light. 
 We do not learn; and what we call learning is only a process of recollection. 
 We ought to esteem it of the greatest importance that the fictions which children first hear should be adapted in the most perfect manner to the promotion of virtue. 
 We ought to fly away from earth to heaven as quickly as we can; and to fly away is to become like God, as far as this is possible; and to become like him is to become holy, just, and wise. 
 
Wealth is well known to be a great comforter. 
 Whatever deceives men seems to produce a magical enchantment. 
 When a Benefit is wrongly conferred, the author of the Benefit may often be said to injure. 
 When men speak ill of thee, live so as nobody may believe them. 
 When the mind is thinking it is talking to itself. 
 When the tyrant has disposed of foreign enemies by conquest or treaty, and there is nothing more to fear from them, then he is always stirring up some war or other, in order that the people may require a leader. 
 When there is an income tax, the just man will pay more and the unjust less on the same amount of income. 
 Wisdom alone is the science of other sciences. 
 Wise men speak because they have something to say; Fools because they have to say something. 
 Wonder is the feeling of the philosopher, and philosophy begins in wonder. 
 You can discover more about a person in an hour of play than in a year of conversation. 
 Your silence gives consent.
===
--Richard Francis Burton--
Between 2 and 3 in the morning of the 19th inst. I was aroused by the cry that the enemy was upon us. 
 I was surrounded at the time by about a dozen of the enemy, whose clubs rattled upon me without mercy, and the strokes of my sabre were rendered uncertain by the energetic pushes of an attendant who thus hoped to save me. 
 One death to a man is a serious thing: a dozen neutralize one another. 
 Support a compatriot against a native, however the former may blunder or plunder. 
 Travellers, like poets, are mostly an angry race: by falling into a daily fit of passion, I proved to the governor and his son, who were profuse in their attentions, that I was in earnest. 
 Wherever we halted we were surrounded by wandering troops of Bedouins.
===
--Voltaire--
A witty saying proves nothing. 
 All men are born with a nose and ten fingers, but no one was born with a knowledge of God. 
 All murderers are punished unless they kill in large numbers and to the sound of trumpets. 
 All styles are good except the tiresome kind. 
 All the reasonings of men are not worth one sentiment of women. 
 An ideal form of government is democracy tempered with assassination. 
 Anyone who has the power to make you believe absurdities has the power to make you commit injustices. 
 Anyone who seeks to destroy the passions instead of controlling them is trying to play the angel. 
 Anything that is too stupid to be spoken is sung. 
 Appreciation is a wonderful thing: It makes what is excellent in others belong to us as well. 
 As long as people believe in absurdities they will continue to commit atrocities. 
 Behind every successful man stands a surprised mother-in-law. 
 Better is the enemy of good. 
 Business is the salt of life. 
 By appreciation, we make excellence in others our own property. 
 Chance is a word void of sense; nothing can exist without a cause. 
 Clever tyrants are never punished. 
 Common sense is not so common. 
 Divorce is probably of nearly the same date as marriage. I believe, however, that marriage is some weeks the more ancient. 
 Do well and you will have no need for ancestors. 
Doubt is not a pleasant condition, but certainty is absurd. 
 Each player must accept the cards life deals him or her: but once they are in hand, he or she alone must decide how to play the cards in order to win the game. 
 Every man is guilty of all the good he did not do. 
 Every one goes astray, but the least imprudent are they who repent the soonest. 
 Everything's fine today, that is our illusion. 
 Faith consists in believing when it is beyond the power of reason to believe. 
 Fear follows crime and is its punishment. 
 Friendship is the marriage of the soul, and this marriage is liable to divorce. 
 Froth at the top, dregs at bottom, but the middle excellent. 
 God gave us the gift of life; it is up to us to give ourselves the gift of living well. 
 God is a comedian, playing to an audience too afraid to laugh. 
 God is not on the side of the big battalions, but on the side of those who shoot best. 
 Governments need to have both shepherds and butchers. 
 He is a hard man who is only just, and a sad one who is only wise. 
 He must be very ignorant for he answers every question he is asked. 
 He shines in the second rank, who is eclipsed in the first. 
 He was a great patriot, a humanitarian, a loyal friend; provided, of course, he really is dead. 
 He who has not the spirit of this age, has all the misery of it. 
 He who is not just is severe, he who is not wise is sad. 
 History is only the register of crimes and misfortunes. 
History should be written as philosophy. 
 How pleasant it is for a father to sit at his child's board. It is like an aged man reclining under the shadow of an oak which he has planted. 
 I am very fond of truth, but not at all of martyrdom. 
 I do not agree with what you have to say, but I'll defend to the death your right to say it. 
 I hate women because they always know where things are. 
 I have lived eighty years of life and know nothing for it, but to be resigned and tell myself that flies are born to be eaten by spiders and man to be devoured by sorrow. 
 I have never made but one prayer to God, a very short one: "O Lord make my enemies ridiculous." And God granted it. 
 I have only ever made one prayer to God, a very short one: O Lord, make my enemies ridiculous. And God granted it. 
 I know many books which have bored their readers, but I know of none which has done real evil. 
 I should like to lie at your feet and die in your arms. 
 Ice-cream is exquisite - what a pity it isn't illegal. 
 If God created us in his own image, we have more than reciprocated. 
 If God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent Him. 
 If there were no God, it would be necessary to invent him. 
 Illusion is the first of all pleasures. 
 In every author let us distinguish the man from his works. 
 In general, the art of government consists of taking as much money as possible from one class of citizens to give to another. 
 In the case of news, we should always wait for the sacrament of confirmation. 
 In this country it is a good thing to kill an admiral from time to time to encourage the others. 
 Indeed, history is nothing more than a tableau of crimes and misfortunes. 
 Injustice in the end produces independence. 
 Is there anyone so wise as to learn by the experience of others? 
 It is an infantile superstition of the human spirit that virginity would be thought a virtue and not the barrier that separates ignorance from knowledge. 
 It is better to risk saving a guilty man than to condemn an innocent one. 
 It is dangerous to be right in matters on which the established authorities are wrong. 
 It is difficult to free fools from the chains they revere. 
 It is forbidden to kill; therefore all murderers are punished unless they kill in large numbers and to the sound of trumpets. 
 It is hard to free fools from the chains they revere. 
 It is lamentable, that to be a good patriot one must become the enemy of the rest of mankind. 
 It is not enough to conquer; one must learn to seduce. 
 It is not known precisely where angels dwell whether in the air, the void, or the planets. It has not been God's pleasure that we should be informed of their abode. 
 It is not love that should be depicted as blind, but self-love. 
 It is not sufficient to see and to know the beauty of a work. We must feel and be affected by it. 
 It is one of the superstitions of the human mind to have imagined that virginity could be a virtue. 
 It is said that the present is pregnant with the future. 
 It is the flash which appears, the thunderbolt will follow. 
 It is vain for the coward to flee; death follows close behind; it is only by defying it that the brave escape. 
 Judge a man by his questions rather than his answers. 
 Let us read and let us dance - two amusements that will never do any harm to the world. 
 Let us work without theorizing, tis the only way to make life endurable. 
 Life is thickly sown with thorns, and I know no other remedy than to pass quickly through them. The longer we dwell on our misfortunes, the greater is their power to harm us. 
 Love has features which pierce all hearts, he wears a bandage which conceals the faults of those beloved. He has wings, he comes quickly and flies away the same. 
 Love is a canvas furnished by nature and embroidered by imagination. 
 Man is free at the moment he wishes to be. 
 Meditation is the dissolution of thoughts in Eternal awareness or Pure consciousness without objectification, knowing without thinking, merging finitude in infinity. 
 Men hate the individual whom they call avaricious only because nothing can be gained from him. 
 Men use thought only as authority for their injustice, and employ speech only to conceal their thoughts. 
 My life is a struggle. 
 Nature has always had more force than education. 
 Never argue at the dinner table, for the one who is not hungry always gets the best of the argument. 
 No problem can withstand the assault of sustained thinking. 
 No snowflake in an avalanche ever feels responsible. 
 Nothing can be more contrary to religion and the clergy than reason and common sense. 
 Nothing would be more tiresome than eating and drinking if God had not made them a pleasure as well as a necessity. 
 Of all religions, the Christian should of course inspire the most tolerance, but until now Christians have been the most intolerant of all men. 
 One great use of words is to hide our thoughts. 
 One merit of poetry few persons will deny: it says more and in fewer words than prose. 
 Opinion has caused more trouble on this little earth than plagues or earthquakes. 
 Optimism is the madness of insisting that all is well when we are miserable. 
 Originality is nothing but judicious imitation. The most original writers borrowed one from another. 
Our country is that spot to which our heart is bound. 
 Paradise was made for tender hearts; hell, for loveless hearts. 
 Perfection is attained by slow degrees; it requires the hand of time. 
 Prejudices are what fools use for reason. 
 Satire lies about literary men while they live and eulogy lies about them when they die. 
 Society therefore is an ancient as the world. 
 Stand upright, speak thy thoughts, declare The truth thou hast, that all may share; Be bold, proclaim it everywhere: They only live who dare. 
 Superstition is to religion what astrology is to astronomy the mad daughter of a wise mother. These daughters have too long dominated the earth. 
 Tears are the silent language of grief. 
 The ancient Romans built their greatest masterpieces of architecture, their amphitheaters, for wild beasts to fight in. 
 The ancients recommended us to sacrifice to the Graces, but Milton sacrificed to the Devil. 
 The art of government is to make two-thirds of a nation pay all it possibly can pay for the benefit of the other third. 
 The art of medicine consists in amusing the patient while nature cures the disease. 
 The best government is a benevolent tyranny tempered by an occasional assassination. 
 The best is the enemy of the good. 
 The best way to be boring is to leave nothing out. 
 The ear is the avenue to the heart. 
 The first step, my son, which one makes in the world, is the one on which depends the rest of our days. 
 The flowery style is not unsuitable to public speeches or addresses, which amount only to compliment. The lighter beauties are in their place when there is nothing more solid to say; but the flowery style ought to be banished from a pleading, a sermon, or a didactic work. 
 The Holy Roman Empire is neither Holy, nor Roman, nor an Empire. 
The husband who decides to surprise his wife is often very much surprised himself. 
 The ideal form of government is democracy tempered with assassination. 
 The infinitely little have a pride infinitely great. 
 The instruction we find in books is like fire. We fetch it from our neighbours, kindle it at home, communicate it to others, and it becomes the property of all. 
 The little may contrast with the great, in painting, but cannot be said to be contrary to it. Oppositions of colors contrast; but there are also colors contrary to each other, that is, which produce an ill effect because they shock the eye when brought very near it. 
 The mouth obeys poorly when the heart murmurs. 
 The multitude of books is making us ignorant. 
 The opportunity for doing mischief is found a hundred times a day, and of doing good once in a year. 
 The progress of rivers to the ocean is not so rapid as that of man to error. 
 The public is a ferocious beast; one must either chain it or flee from it. 
 The safest course is to do nothing against one's conscience. With this secret, we can enjoy life and have no fear from death. 
 The secret of being a bore... is to tell everything. 
 The sovereign is called a tyrant who knows no laws but his caprice. 
 The superfluous, a very necessary thing. 
 The true triumph of reason is that it enables us to get along with those who do not possess it. 
 The truths of religion are never so well understood as by those who have lost the power of reason. 
 The very impossibility in which I find myself to prove that God is not, discovers to me his existence. 
 The world embarrasses me, and I cannot dream that this watch exists and has no watchmaker. 
 There are truths which are not for all men, nor for all times. 
 Think for yourselves and let others enjoy the privilege to do so, too. 
This self-love is the instrument of our preservation; it resembles the provision for the perpetuity of mankind: it is necessary, it is dear to us, it gives us pleasure, and we must conceal it. 
 Those who can make you believe absurdities can make you commit atrocities. 
 Time, which alone makes the reputation of men, ends by making their defects respectable. 
 To believe in God is impossible not to believe in Him is absurd. 
 To hold a pen is to be at war. 
 To succeed in the world it is not enough to be stupid, you must also be well-mannered. 
 To the living we owe respect, but to the dead we owe only the truth. 
 To the wicked, everything serves as pretext. 
 Tyrants have always some slight shade of virtue; they support the laws before destroying them. 
 Use, do not abuse; neither abstinence nor excess ever renders man happy. 
 Very learned women are to be found, in the same manner as female warriors; but they are seldom or ever inventors. 
 Very often, say what you will, a knave is only a fool. 
 We are all full of weakness and errors; let us mutually pardon each other our follies - it is the first law of nature. 
 We are rarely proud when we are alone. 
 We cannot always oblige; but we can always speak obligingly. 
 We cannot wish for that we know not. 
 We have a natural right to make use of our pens as of our tongue, at our peril, risk and hazard. 
 We must cultivate our own garden. When man was put in the garden of Eden he was put there so that he should work, which proves that man was not born to rest. 
 We must distinguish between speaking to deceive and being silent to be reserved. 
 We never live; we are always in the expectation of living. 
Weakness on both sides is, as we know, the motto of all quarrels. 
 What a heavy burden is a name that has become too famous. 
 What is tolerance? It is the consequence of humanity. We are all formed of frailty and error; let us pardon reciprocally each other's folly - that is the first law of nature. 
 What most persons consider as virtue, after the age of 40 is simply a loss of energy. 
 What then do you call your soul? What idea have you of it? You cannot of yourselves, without revelation, admit the existence within you of anything but a power unknown to you of feeling and thinking. 
 When he to whom one speaks does not understand, and he who speaks himself does not understand, that is metaphysics. 
 When it is a question of money, everybody is of the same religion. 
 Whoever serves his country well has no need of ancestors. 
 Woe to the makers of literal translations, who by rendering every word weaken the meaning! It is indeed by so doing that we can say the letter kills and the spirit gives life. }
